Company: Amazon
Symbol: AMZN
Exchange: NASDAQ
Year: 2019
Quarter: Q2
Source: https://earningscall.biz/e/nasdaq/s/amzn/y/2019/q/q2
Extracted At (UTC): 2026-02-17T10:17:29.309357+00:00

---
Operator Thank you for standing by. Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Amazon.com Q2 2019 Financial Results Teleconference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct a question and answer session. Today's call is being recorded. For opening remarks, I will be turning the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Shelley Kay Pfeiffer. Please go ahead. Thank you.

Shelley Kay Pfeiffer Director of Investor Relations Hello, and welcome to our Q2 2019 Financial Results Conference Call. Joining us today to answer your questions is Brian Olsoski, our CFO, and Dave Files, Director of Investor Relations. As you listen to today's conference call, we encourage you to have our press release in front of you, which includes our financial results, as well as metrics and commentary on the quarter. Please note, unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2018. Our comments and responses to your questions reflect management's views as of today, July 25, 2019 only, and will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially. Additional information about factors that could potentially impact our financial results is included in today's press release and our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings. During this call, we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. In our press release, slides accompanying this webcast, and our filings with the SEC, each of which is posted on our IR website, you will find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations of these measures with comparable GAAP measures. Our guidance incorporates the order trends that we've seen to date and what we believe today to be appropriate assumptions. Our results are inherently unpredictable and may be materially affected by many factors, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce, and cloud services, and the various factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Our guidance also assumes, among other things, that we don't conclude any additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings, or legal settlements. It's not possible to accurately predict demand for our goods and services, and therefore our actual results could differ materially from our guidance. With that, we will move to Q&A. Operator, please remind our listeners how to initiate a question.

Operator Thank you. At this time, we will now open the call-up for questions. We ask each caller please limit yourself to one question. If you'd like to ask a question, please press star 1 on your keypad. We ask that when you pose your question, you pick up your handsets to provide optimum sound quality. Once again, to initiate a question, please press star, then 1 on your touch-tone telephone at this time. Please hold while we poll for questions. Thank you. Our first question is coming from the line of Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed.

Brian Nowak Morgan Stanley Analyst Thanks for taking my question. I have two. It looks like the overall retail business accelerated pretty nicely in the quarter. Maybe could you just talk about whether 24-hour shipping is driving that? So which specific categories of consumption are you seeing really drive that acceleration? And then sort of the opposite question on AWS, which should slow down a little bit. Can you just talk about some of the puts and takes in the AWS revenue growth this quarter versus the prior few?

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Thanks. Sure, Brian. Thanks for your questions. Let me start with AWS. We filled a really strong quarter. We had a growth year-over-year in our run rate from $24 billion to $33 billion, so 37% growth. The $9 billion that we increased our run rate by was second only to Q4 of last year as far as our history. So as you can tell, we've been pretty transparent with our AWS revenue and income numbers we've been breaking out since 2015. And we're very happy with the growth in absolute dollar terms that we're seeing the pickup from customers and their usage, their increased pace of enterprise migrations, increased adoption of our services, especially our machine learning services. And continually, again, AWS is being chosen as a partner to many companies because of our leadership position, both in technology, our vibrant technology, partner ecosystem and also the stronger security that we offer. On your question about One Day, let me update you on that because obviously that was a big topic of conversation last quarter, and you can see that it's starting to show up in our results in Q2. So we are really pleased with the customer response to our growing One Day offering. In Q2, we had a meaningful step up in the One Day shipments, primarily in North America. and one-day volume was accelerating throughout the quarter. The ops team did a fantastic job here, not only being able to expand one-day selection and delivery capacity, but also preparing for and handling some very high volumes on prime day earlier in the month. So we're in the middle of a journey here. We expect to see a continued ramp of the one-day selection and availability through the next few quarters, both in North America and international. International was up slightly in January, Q2, but for the most part, the improvement in delivery speeds will be in future quarters there. On the cost side, we talked last time about $800 million estimate of transportation cost to supply one day, the additional one day in Q2. We were a little bit higher than that number in total costs. We saw some additional transition costs in our warehouses. We saw some lower productivity as we were expanding rather quickly, both local capacity in the FCs and also in our delivery networks. We also saw some costs from buying more inventory and moving inventory around in our network to have it be closer to the customers. And we've built not only that cost structure but an accelerating cost penalty into our Q3 guidance that was released with our earnings today. And as I said in another setting, you know, we've seen this before. We have had large changes to our distribution and transportation network repeatedly in our history from going from media to a vast variety of different product lines, hard lines, non-sortable as we call them. The initial two-day prime shipping offer that we launched many years ago, the great expansion of our network to include FBA units merchants and capacity for them. And more recently, the first steps to increase one day and same day, although on a much smaller scale. So it does create a shock to the system. We're working through that now. We expect we'll be working through that for a number of quarters. But when the dust settles, we will regain our cost efficiency over time. As far as you asked about specific product lines, nothing really to share there. We have seen lower ASP generally in Q2, higher unit growth versus revenue growth in North America, and it could be that we are mixing into some lower ASP items as we launch one day, but we haven't drawn that total conclusion yet.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Heath Perry with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed.

Heath Perry Goldman Sachs Analyst Great, thanks. Just wondering back on the AWS side of things, can you give us a sense of sort of what you're seeing from a volume perspective? Obviously, price is always a big component of growth in this, but just trying to understand whether or not you're seeing similar trends in terms of growth rate deceleration on the volume side of things. And then to the extent that we're sort of thinking about the mix of either revenue or usage within that business, are there Any products or sort of product areas, AI obviously being one that's been a major initiative for you, that you're seeing particular either outside growth or under growth relative to the overall business that you would call out?

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Yeah, sure. And that second point, I'd say we're seeing a lot of increased adoption in machine learning services, especially Amazon SageMaker. We've had tens of thousands of customers who are now using AWS machine learning services and we'll continue to innovate on behalf of those customers. We'll release more than 200 machine learning features and capabilities in 2018 alone in this area. Database is also a multi-billion dollar business propelled by Aurora. So we're seeing a lot of strength. We're seeing strong usage growth that outpaces revenue growth as usual, increased pace of enterprise migrations. So I would say that on a percentage growth basis, Again, on a dollar basis, it's growing very strongly. On a percentage growth basis, we are lapping some very strong growth in the first half of last year. We were growing about 50% in the first half of last year, and there's some particular unique customer volumes that were flowing through that some customers had really high usage tied to their businesses. But for the most part, we continue to grow usage and growth our expansion of our services with all of our customers. So very happy.

Operator Thank you. Our next question is from Justin Post with Merrill Lynch. Please proceed.

Justin Post Merrill Lynch Analyst Great. A couple questions. I guess the first question is just what happens with customer behavior when they do have one-day availability? I'm assuming units go up, but can you give us any details on what happens or our category that switches to one-day, what happens? And the second question, we've heard from some of our checks that Some of the smaller merchants are moving to 3P, not getting orders on the 1P side as much. Is there any change in your business there to really kind of focus more towards third party from first party? Thanks a lot.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Sure. Now, we don't have category specifics to really share with you today on the move to one day. I did say that generally in Q2, the unit volume was greater than the revenue volume, so we did see some lower ASPs, but I think what you're seeing is just a lot more products enter the consideration set for our customers. So things that maybe they can't wait two days on, they can wait one day, and it lights up a whole separate usefulness for the Amazon site. I've noticed that personally myself. With one-day shipments, it's here before you know it. So what categories that hits specifically, we'll have to see over time. On your comment, I assume you meant vendors, not merchants, but on the move from 1P to 3P. Now, there shouldn't be – I can't highlight anything related to shift in channel there, but I would say that we remain indifferent on whether – we're focused on price, convenience, and selection for customers. And whether a product is a retail offering or third-party offering is not – that important to us, as long as it's in stock, as long as it's priced competitively. So, you know, as you know, our 3P selection has – our 3P percent of units has been increasing over time. It increased again in this quarter to 54 percent of units. We continue to invest very heavily in our systems, both for retail vendors and also for third-party merchants. We invest billions of dollars a year on behalf of them making – Amazon is a better place for customers to buy and increasing not only vendor sales but also third-party merchant sales. In particular, on Prime Day, I think you'll see that we had over on a press release, we had more than $2 billion of products were bought from small and medium-sized businesses. So when we win, we win together with our vendor partners and also our seller partners.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Jason Hildstein with Oppenheimer. Please proceed.

Jason Hildstein Oppenheimer Analyst Thanks. So in the release, you made a comment about automotive and Alexa. Anything you want to elaborate a little more that looks like a very interesting opportunity? And then with respect to India, there were two comments in the release, but anything you can comment on kind of getting past some of the issues that had impact to the business in the past, and are you past that now? Thank you.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Yeah, let me start with India. So yeah, continue to see growth in programs for our sellers and delivery partners. In the last 18 months, we've doubled the number of paid Prime members, which we're very excited about. We've invested a lot in our global selling program, which helps Indian sellers not only reach customers in India, but also in other geographies around the world. We started Amazon Flex in India, which helps our local partners to deliver packages. It gives them jobs. It grows our delivery capacity for sellers and increases our speed of delivery. So it's a win-win. We've also introduced package-free shipment program in nine cities. This is going to be a big part of our Shipment Zero program, the vision to make all Amazon shipments net carbon zero. On the government side, you know, our engagement with Indian government makes us optimistic about partnering and collaborating to seek a stable, predictable policy that allows us to continue investing in our technology and infrastructure, and it also helps us to create jobs and scale local businesses. So we think there's a lot of shared purpose there, and a good quarter we're – Looking forward to Diwali holiday this year. The events we had for Diwali were all in Q4 last year. Some of them are in Q3 this year based on the timing of the holiday. So that's factored into our international, excuse me, our revenue growth rate for the quarter.

Dave Files Director of Investor Relations Yeah, Jason, this is just Dave. Just quickly on the Alexa point in auto, you know, Alexa is really in more and more places. I think the point you're probably referencing is we're now seeing hundreds of third-party devices with Alexa built in. So that runs the gamut from smart thermostat and other smart home devices, headphones, but also vehicles. So we've seen a lot of good partnerships and arrangements with companies like BMW and Mini, and not just in the U.S., but in places like Europe as well. So a lot of this, of course, is just around the great power of Alexa. and being able to offer even greater convenience and touch points where customers can interact with that. And we're seeing a lot of great momentum with usage and how customers are interacting with Alexa, but also when you look at the broader environment of third-party devices, devices that we're rolling out and all those things, we're seeing a lot of good momentum there. And I think it's underpinned by the fact that Alexa is always getting smarter, and so customers are enjoying the benefit of that enhanced experience.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Yusuf Squali with SunTrust. Please proceed.

Yusuf Squali SunTrust Analyst Great. Thank you very much. Two quick questions for me, please. Can you quantify the cost of one-day shipping to Q3 guidance, kind of similarly to what you did for Q2 with that $800 million? When does it plateau? How should we be thinking about it as we map it out over the next several quarters? And then you guys made a very intriguing acquisition, the Seismic Acquisition, some time back. Just wondering, how does it fit in the overall strategy? And the idea is to try to build maybe a DoubleClick-like-minded model, sorry, using that platform. Thank you.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Yeah, hi, Yusuf. Let me start with your question on one day. I'm not breaking out the specific cost this quarter as I did last quarter. Some of this is because it's very hard to pinpoint exactly the lines between one day and other cost issues. So we're always working within a range. We're confident we're near but just above our 800 million estimate in Q2. And as I said, this is going to take multiple quarters to play out. We had a meaningful step up in North America in Q2. and it was accelerating through the quarter. We'll see more cost in Q3. We'll see about Q4 when we talk, and everything we know about or anticipate about Q3 is built into our guidance. So while I won't break out the dollar term, I will tell you at the end of the quarter kind of what we're seeing on cost and how it looks for Q4 as well. And the other thing I would point out on the trajectory is that We're just getting started in international, and most of that work is ahead of us, although the speed did tick up a bit in Q2, and will do even more so in Q3 in future quarters.

Dave Files Director of Investor Relations And then just on Seismic quickly, we're excited to have acquired Seismic's ad server and then Seismic's dynamic creative optimization, or DCO. Customers are going to be able to continue to use those proven products and services. We're invested in the long-term success of Seismic, and I think Amazon Advertising and Seismic have many mutual customers, so we know how valued these proven solutions are to their customer base. So we're looking forward to working with that team, and we'll share more updates as we invent and create new opportunities to serve advertisers in the future.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Mark Mahaney with RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed. Sir, your line is live.

Mark Mahaney RBC Capital Markets Analyst Yeah, sorry about that. Hey, Brian, could you talk a little bit about the elasticity you're seeing, you expect to see in international markets with the rollout of one day? And, you know, I just – the commentary in the press release about this acceleration from one day sounds great. It's a little surprising that you would see the reaction that quickly, but, you know, maybe this really is – Well, you're obviously seeing it. Your confidence that you'll also see it as you roll it out into international markets, if you could just comment on that. Thank you.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Sure. Of course, the proportion of one-day shipments is higher in international to begin with in a lot of our countries. So we expect it to be very valuable to customers as we add selection into that one-day category. But we think the biggest elasticity is probably in North America where shipments the standard has been two-day shipping for Prime. So, yeah, I would say, you know, you're faced with the – you see it every time you go to our site. You know, it's automatically built in. You're surprised by the speed. It's not like you have to search one-day shipping specifically to find out what's available. It's growing, and it's pervasive. So I think what that does is, Again, it strengthens your purchase decision. It strengthens the need to not have to go elsewhere to buy a product because you need it quickly. So I think it just becomes a part of your routine. At least that's what we're seeing in North America. And we hope, again, as we build this capacity to more and more regions and more and more zip codes and adding more and more selection that everyone will see the same thing that we see already in major cities. I do want to add one point, though, because when we talk about operating income, both in Q2 and Q3, and we talk about the cost and penalty of one day, I would like to highlight there's some other investment areas that are certainly going on here. If you look at Q2, marketing expense was up 48% year over year, and that's a combination of a few things. First, we're continuing to add to our AWS sales and marketing teams. We see a great opportunity there to help customers engage with our services and migrate to our products. So we continue to build out our Salesforce and our marketing programs. We're also adding more and more advertising as we roll out devices and new Prime Video content, in particular internationally. So we're seeing higher marketing costs there. We're also seeing a higher stock-based compensation expense. That was up 36% year-over-year. And you'll see that our headcount grew 13% year-over-year. So when you look at some of our most quickly growing areas, things like Alexa and AWS, and also teams working on machine learning and other high-end technical projects, our technical headcount actually grew nearly twice that rate that you saw the total headcount. There's a lot of moving parts within our headcount number, but there's a very strong investment going on in AWS devices and videos in particular.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Ross Sandler with Barclays. Please proceed.

Ross Sandler Barclays Analyst Hey, guys. Just two questions. North America retail acceleration was like three and a half points, and you mentioned that international was about one. So can we attribute the difference to one day, or was there other organic acceleration in North America happening aside from the move to one day? And then, Brian, related to that investing question, AWS operating margins came down a bit. I know they had a tough comp, but anything you would call out aside from the headcount stuff that you just mentioned that may have been lumpy in the quarter on AWS? Thanks.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Sure. Let me start with that second question. So, yeah, the operating margin in AWS, just like the revenue rate, it's such a rapidly growing business with different timing of investments and global expansion and you know, investment in marketing and infrastructure that is going to vary quarter to quarter. We've come off a period where, if you remember last year, we had less investment needed in infrastructure, both for AWS and for Amazon in total. I don't have the number directly in front of me, but anyway, the – oh, I'm sorry. You know, we grew – leases, which is essentially our proxy for capital leases for infrastructure by 9% in Q1, and it was 10% all of last year, coming off a year in 2017 where we had growth of 69%. So we had that dynamic. Our trailing 12-month growth in that number is 21% after Q2. So it's stepped up from 9% to 21%. So we are starting to see, as I mentioned in earlier calls, that the investment will be stepping up in 2019. So started to see that in Q2. But I would say the biggest impact in the operating profit was the addition of sales and marketing personnel in AWS and also Q2. to a lesser extent, the stock-based compensation, which certainly hits across all of our businesses. Your comment on revenue growth, the differential, I mean, there's so many different factors going on in every country that it's hard to compare North America to international. But I would say that we are attributing a good bit of the revenue growth acceleration from 17% in Q1 to 20% in Q2. to the rollout of one day and the impact of that. There's other things. Obviously, we continue to add selection. And we have, again, lots of engagement points with customers through Prime benefits and video and devices that certainly contribute to our revenue run rate and our retention of Prime members. But if we're going to point to one thing in Q2 that's different, it was obviously the the start of it and the step up in one-day shipments.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Mark May with Citi. Please proceed.

Mark May Citi Analyst Thanks for taking my question. I appreciate it. First, I got sort of an organizational question, but some of the feedback I've heard from the ecosystem is that it appears that the combination of the way Amazon's organized internally and just the rapid growth in the ad business, 1P, 3P, that at times there are signs that kind of these teams internally are not always aligned and maybe that creates some issues. I just wonder, first, do you generally agree with this? And if so, you know, what is the company doing to kind of better optimize these increasingly related functions that maybe, you know, in the past haven't always been, you know, organized internally that way? And then secondly, in terms of subscription revenue, Where are we in terms of the benefit from the price increase announced last year and rolled through to existing members throughout the last year, and will this have any meaningful impact in that line's growth, say, in Q3 or the back half of the year? Thanks.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Sure. So I assume your first question is about the coordination of advertiser with teams that are interacting with vendors and sellers, perhaps. Is that what you meant?

Mark May Citi Analyst Exactly. Yep.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Okay. Yeah. So, yeah, first I'd say we're customer focused first and primarily. But, you know, we need to have good coordination across our teams and we grow fast and we add new things. So there's always, you know, learnings that we have. That's why we say it's still day one here. But we're trying to minimize the, you know, negative impact on any vendor or seller out there. So, I can't comment on exactly what issues you might be talking about. We have teams dedicated to the seller experience and the vendor experience, and we think that they do a good job of selling the whole suite of products, including advertising with the advertising teams at Amazon. But as you say, they're separately run, and they can meet at different points. And sometimes at certain vendors, perhaps that may get out of sync. Hopefully that is a temporary condition. On subscription revenue, yes, you'll remember we raised the price of Prime in the U.S. last June from $99 to $119. So the largest impact, favorable impact from that, at least from a subscription revenue standpoint, would have happened in the subsequent four quarters, less in Q2, more in Q3 through Q2 of this year. So Yeah, that will be a factor that we're comping for the next 12 months. It's offset by the growth in the Prime program itself and the expansion of Prime benefits or the Prime program globally. You may have seen that we launched Prime in the United Arab Emirates this quarter. So it's something we've certainly seen in the past with timing of price increases, but It's built into the Q3 guidance that I've given.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Colin Sebastian with Robert W. Baird. Please proceed.

Colin Sebastian Robert W. Baird Analyst Great, thanks. I guess first off, curious, just to follow up on the ASP comment, if those were, if that shift was within the same categories or does lower ASPs imply diversification into new categories? But my main question is just looking ahead to the holiday period, given some of the moving parts and 3PL and shipping ecosystems, and then, of course, with the transition to one day, are you confident that there is enough capacity from your own first-party logistics as well as third-party partners to meet that seasonal demand? And should we now expect a faster ramp in Amazon Air as a means to move cargo between fulfillment centers? Thanks.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Yes, so I would say the first time we started discussing the rollout of One Day, our first thoughts went to Q4 of this year and our capability for holiday and, you know, as much as Q2 and Q3. So we are confident that we will have the ability to handle seasonal demand. We are working very hard to expand our One Day capacity. add carriers, add delivery partners, add our own AMZL capability, and have our partners expand their capability as well. So we're feeling good about Q4. It's a little early to discuss that now, but we certainly had a really good test on Prime Day. It was the two biggest days we've ever had. A lot of good work went into Prime Day, a lot of benefit for customers, a lot of benefit for our selling partners as small business merchants as well. So it was a good test for us. And your question on low ASP, I think we're still figuring that out a bit. I mean, what I'm reacting to is the high unit growth relative to what was also good growth in revenue, but unit growth grew faster. I'm always a little leery to put too much into the unit growth number, as I've talked in other conversations. Quarters, it's a number that excludes AWS, subscription services, advertising, and Whole Foods, which are some of our fastest-growing areas. And we also are actively selling subscription services like Kindle Unlimited and Amazon Music Unlimited, which can cannibalize unit sales. So there's a lot of moving parts. Usually our headwinds to our unit growth number, but again, happy with the 800 basis point quarter-over-quarter jump in that.

Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Brett Phil with Jefferies. Please proceed.

Brett Phil Jefferies Analyst Thanks. Brian, just on the income guide for the next quarter, it's significantly below where many of us are at. I'm curious if you could just talk to any changes around expenses and the success of the one day. Are you just doubling down, or can you just walk through what transpires in the next quarter? Thank you.

Brian Olsoski Chief Financial Officer Sure. So again, the biggest individual item is the one-day shipping. As I said earlier, we had a meaningful step up in shipments in Q2 versus Q1, but we're still on our way. And Q3 will be a step up over Q2 in North America, and we'll see more in international. So it's that increase in one-day shipping and all the associated cost of additional transportation and getting capacity in place. And as I mentioned earlier, new costs and things like expanding inventory, getting it closer to the customer. You know, it's just a lot of things moving, a lot of moving parts in the fulfillment center world right now in our transportation network. So that is the biggest individual contributor. But as I mentioned in Q2's results, you know, some of the investments in marketing, the step up in infrastructure spending, That should continue. We certainly have a lot of areas where we continue to invest, not the least of which is our AWS business, devices, video, the global expansion of a lot of our prime benefits and things like stores and grocery delivery through Whole Foods, Prime Now, and Amazon Fresh. So I would say, yes, we had a... As we have mentioned in the last couple of calls, we had some lessening of expenses in some key areas last year, mostly tied to headcount growth, infrastructure, and fulfillment capacity. We expected a step up in 2019. We didn't see as much of it in Q1, mainly because of the timing and the seasonality of the year and getting things going. We're seeing more of it in Q2, and we'll see it through the remainder of the year.

Operator Thank you. Our final question will come from Eric Sheridan with UBS. Please proceed.

Eric Sheridan UBS Analyst Thanks so much. Maybe a few small questions on the advertising side of the business, if I can. How much of the advertising business, if you're willing to say, is driven by domestic sellers and domestic brands versus the international side? Two, how do you think about the video ad revenue opportunity? We continue to hear from a lot of people in the advertising industry that you might be a bigger player video advertising either later this year or more into next year. How do you think about making investments against that possibility or even just the possibility of it being a driver on your platform overall? Thanks so much for any color, guys.

Dave Files Director of Investor Relations Yeah, Eric. Hey, this is Dave. I think starting with the video advertising, I think that one focus area for us is expanding our video and over-the-top offerings for brands. We've taken some steps with live sports and then IMDb TV, but we'll continue to to do things like add more OTT video supply to things like Amazon Publisher Service integrations and simplifying access for third-party apps and add more inventory through things like Fire TV apps and IMDb TV. So I think, you know, some interesting areas that we're continuing to put a lot of focus into. On the first part of your question in terms of geographical mix, I mean, fair to assume that like a lot of our business advertising in the North America area, segment is, you know, the bigger piece of that. But I think we're really excited about the international opportunity. A lot of the tools that we've rolled out and introduced in places like the United States are available in many of the international regions. And so, you know, it's a matter of continuing to work with advertisers and brands and kind of, you know, build up not only awareness, but just how those ads, things like sponsored products, interact with customers and how they're received, building up, you know, the things we talk about many times here around improving relevancy on each of those geographic websites is an important thing that we're measuring. So expect to continue to see us look for new ways to be able to roll that out. Thank you for joining us on the call today and for your questions. A replay will be available on our investor relations website at least through the end of the quarter. We appreciate your interest in Amazon and look forward to talking with you again next quarter.
