Company: Roku
Symbol: ROKU
Exchange: NASDAQ
Year: 2023
Quarter: Q2
Source: https://earningscall.biz/e/nasdaq/s/roku/y/2023/q/q2
Extracted At (UTC): 2026-02-17T10:18:29.432230+00:00

---
Operator I'm rather hoping that these bakers will bring something new to the tent. America genuinely is the great melting pot of the world.

spk16 Paul, any words of advice?

spk01 Good luck.

spk16 On your marks, get set, bake! It's the tent!

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer I would be lying if I said I wasn't nervous.

spk16 There might be a winner from Chicago.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Are we supposed to curtsy or? Oh, I don't know.

Laura Martin Analyst, Needham & Company The bottom crust will be a short crust, the top will be an American flaked pie crust.

spk01 See, the Americans are taking over that as well.

Operator We have bakers in the tent, and you've given them burgers.

spk01 I expect the Americans to understand what a burger is.

Operator I have never eaten a hamburger in my life.

spk01 Oh, Susan. That's beautiful.

Operator Looks like concrete, darling.

spk01 Uh-oh.

Operator You could break your teeth on that.

spk01 I've just a couple of American baking competitions, and I think this is by far and away the best group.

spk16 Why do I feel partially responsible for that? Thank you.

Operator Were you assembling them while they were a bit warm? Yes. You ran out of time. One minute left.

Nicholas Zangler It is basil. Can I use a walnut? Basil. Oh, yes. I thought that was a name.

Basil I wish we could hear the show music.

Laura Martin Analyst, Needham & Company It's very calming.

Operator Conference Operator Good day, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the second quarter 2023 Roku Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. After the speaker's presentation, there'll be a question and answer session. To ask a question during the session, you'll need to press star 1-1 on your telephone. You will then hear an automated message advising you your hand is raised. To withdraw your question, please press star 1-1 again. Please be advised that today's conference is being recorded. I would now like to hand the conference over to your speaker today, Conrad Grad, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please go ahead.

Conrad Grad Vice President of Investor Relations Thank you, Operator. Good afternoon, and welcome to Roku's second quarter 2023 earnings call. I'm joined today by Anthony Wood, Roku's founder and CEO, and Dan Jetta, our CFO. Also in today's call for Q&A are Charlie Collier, President, Roku Media, Mustafa Ozcan, President, Devices, and Kadam Katz, President, Consumer Experience. Full details of our results and additional management commentary are available in our sharehold letter, which can be found on our investor relations website at roku.com forward slash investor. Our comments and responses to your questions on this call reflect management's views as of today only, and we disclaim any obligation to update this information. On this call, we'll make forward-looking statements, which are predictions, rejections, or other statements that about future events such as statements regarding our financial outlook, our commitment to positive adjusted EBITDA for full year 2024, and continued improvements thereafter, our investments, future market conditions, and our expectations regarding the impact of macroeconomic headwinds on our business and industry. These statements are based on our current expectations, forecasts, and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. Please refer to our shareholder letter and our periodic SEC filings for information on factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. We'll also discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures on today's call. Reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are provided in our shareholder letter. Finally, unless otherwise stated, all comparisons on this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2022. Now, I'd like to hand the call over to Anthony. Thanks, Conrad. Roku delivered solid Q2 results in a challenging economic environment. We grew scale, engagement, and platform revenue.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer The Roku OS was once again the number one selling smart TV OS in the United States and Mexico. For the first time, Nielsen reported the Roku channel was 1.1% of total US TV viewing in May, representing 3% of streaming. This is similar engagement to Peacock and HBO Max. We are leaning into our unique role as the platform owner to help viewers find entertainment across the enormous amount of content available throughout the Roku platform. Our home screen menu provides links to features such as our live TV guide, sports, and what to watch that aggregate relevant content into a single location. As we grow user engagement from the home screen menu, we generate more monetization opportunities. At our recent New Fronts presentation, we showcased the new ad units that are unique to the Roku platform. We've opened Roku City to major brands with recent promotions from McDonald's as well as the Barbie movie. We have partnered with a few key advertisers and verticals beyond M&E to place ads on the Roku home screen and are ramping up our work with third-party DSPs to capture incremental demand while not reducing existing revenue streams. We built a best-in-class TV streaming platform for viewers, advertisers, streaming services, and content owners, and we continue to lead the industry with innovation and scale. We remain committed to achieving positive adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2024 with continued improvements after that.

Conrad Grad Vice President of Investor Relations Now, I'll turn it over to Dan to discuss our results.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Thanks, Anthony. We ended the quarter with 73.5 million active accounts globally. Sequential net ads of 1.9 million were slightly above our net ads in Q2 2022. Overall, smart TV unit sales in the U.S. were up in Q2, despite slight increases in TV panel and freight costs. Roku player unit sales remained above pre-COVID levels, and the average selling price was down 9% year-over-year. Roku users streamed 25.1 billion hours in the quarter and increased at 21% year-over-year, while viewing hours on traditional pay TV fell 13%. In Q2, total net revenue increased 11% year-over-year to $847 million. Platform revenue was up 11% year-over-year to $744 million. Ad spend on the Roku platform and verticals, including CPG and health and wellness, improved. while technology and media and entertainment remain pressured. Q2 devices revenue increased 9% year-over-year, driven by the launch of our Roku-branded TVs and smart home products. In Q2, ARPU was 40.67 on a trailing 12-month basis, down 7% year-over-year. This decline was due to strong global active account growth outpacing platform revenue growth. We expect that over time, monetization per account will continue to grow as the advertising industry rebounds and as a larger percentage of our U.S. customers cut the cord. In Q2, gross profit increased 7% year-over-year to $378 million. Platform gross margin was 53%, which was down three percentage points year-over-year. This reflects weakness in the ad scatter market, along with greater mix away from M&E in Q2 2023 compared to a year ago. Device margin was negative 17%, which was up almost three percentage points year-over-year. Four percentage point difference between the year-over-year growth rates of total net revenue and total gross profit was caused by year-over-year compression of platform margins. Q2 adjusted EBITDA was negative 18 million, which was 57 million above our outlook. The better-than-expected performance was driven by our platform segment and improvements in our operating expense profile. We ended the quarter with approximately $1.8 billion of cash and restricted cash. Looking to the third quarter, we anticipate total net revenue of $850 million of 7% year-over-year. Gross profit will be $355 million with gross margin of 43% and adjusted EBITDA of negative $50 million. Overall, trends that we observed in Q1 played out in Q2, and we expect them to continue throughout the year. While consumer spend is showing some modest growth, macro concern and uncertainty remain. As mentioned earlier with the platform segment, we do see some recovery signals in certain advertising verticals. However, M&E spend, which is already challenged industry-wide, is expected to be further pressured by limited fall release schedules. As such, we expect Q3 platform margins to be below Q2 levels. On the device side, we expect margins to improve from negative 16% in Q3 last year to negative low teens. We're executing on our plan to slow year-over-year OpEx growth. In Q2, OpEx grew 8% year-over-year, achieving single-digit growth ahead of our forecasted timeline. We anticipate OpEx year-over-year growth rate to fall below 5% in Q3 and further improvement in Q4. Given our ongoing work to improve operational efficiencies and re-accelerate revenue growth, we remain committed to our plan to deliver positive adjusted EBITDA for the full year 2024.

Moderator Conference Moderator With that, let's take questions. Operator?

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. As a reminder, to ask a question, please press star 11 on your telephone and wait for your name to be announced. To withdraw your question, please press star 11 again. Please stand by while we compile the Q&A roster. Our first question comes from Shyam Patel with Susquehanna International Group. Your line is open.

Shyam Patel Analyst, Susquehanna International Group Hey, guys. Congrats on the nice quarter on Outlook. I had a couple of questions. First one for Dan, can you talk about what attracted you to Roku and what you're most excited about now that you've been here for a few months. And then second, can you guys talk a little bit more about your outlook for 3Q platform revenue, specifically, you know, what you're seeing in July and how you're thinking about the balance of 3Q, and then any additional color you may be able to provide on the scatter market and M&E? Thank you.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Hi, Shyam. Thanks for the question. As I spent 10 years at Amazon in the streaming and advertising businesses, I am well aware of the opportunity and the progress in streaming. I followed Roku from before the company went public. I've been a user of the Roku TVs during this entire time as well. In addition to loving the product, I really admired Roku's innovation and Anthony's vision. What makes Roku particularly interesting to me is where we're at as a company. We're a market leader. We have significant scale and engagement, and the leverage in the business is excellent, as we've shown in our Q2 results. And still, the long-term opportunity for both engagement and monetization in front of us is huge, and the people at Roku have been incredible. So I'm truly honored to have the opportunity to be here at Roku. I couldn't be more excited to be here with Anthony and the entire Roku team.

Moderator Conference Moderator And then, Dan, do you want to talk about the second part of the question?

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer I think it was about the outlook.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, let me, I'll take that. We, you know, we delivered solid Q2 results and we're well positioned and confident in our business. But overall, uncertainty remains with the, with certain verticals in the advertising. And we expect those trends that we observed in Q1 and Q2 to continue for the rest of this year. As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we are seeing recovery in verticals, including CPG and health and wellness. However, tech and M&E remain challenged. And just as a reminder, M&E historically is our largest and highest margin ad vertical. It's been challenged industry-wide, and we expect it to be further pressured in the second half of this year by the limited fall release schedules arising from the current labor strikes. And so we factored that into our outlook. At the same time, we continue to gain share in video ad spend. And while mix is shifting, our margins are relatively consistent and healthy across our various platform categories. and we remain confident in our business going forward.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer And this is Anthony. I'll just add, we're continuing to grow our scale, engagement, and monetization opportunities. For example, in the quarter, we added nearly 2 million net new accounts. Also, in Q2, streaming hours originating from the home screen menu grew 90% year over year, which demonstrates the strength and ability of our tools to help viewers find content across the UI and discover something to watch. Also, we continue to launch unique new ad units, for example, extensions in Roku City, shoppable ads. And, of course, we continue to create new demand sources from third-party DSPs. So, you know, I guess I'd just summarize by saying advertising is cyclical. The long-term opportunity in streaming remains unchanged. And we're at the center, serving viewers, content owners, and advertisers. And then, let's see, there's actually a third part, I think, to the question, which was around M&E. So let's see. M&E. So I'll kick that off and then turn it over to Charlie. So M&E, which stands for media and entertainment. Let me just explain a little bit about that. I mean, we're the number one streaming platform. We distribute lots of services and content. One of the biggest roles we have is helping viewers find something to watch across all the different content and services on the platform. And there's a bunch of ways we do that. But one way we do that is through our M&E promotions. which are generally integrated into our UI, and they're a very effective way and a very viewer-friendly way to expose content and help viewers find content that's available on different services. And we're very good at these types of promotions. I would say we're best in class. And for a streaming service, just trying to increase engagement or add more subscribers is a very cost-effective way to do that, our M&E promotions. Due to the current state of the economy, And the ad cycle we're in, M&E is down industry-wide right now. But we think our share is growing. And it's there we continue to invest in. I mean, as a platform, we're just uniquely positioned to help with M&E, help drive engagement, help build subscribers. So it's something that we view as core to our business, and we're continuing to invest in it. But let me turn it over to Charlie, who can talk a little bit more about what we're doing to diversify away from M&E ads.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Great thing. Thank you, Anthony and Chaim. Thanks for congratulating us on the quarter and for the sneakiest ever three-part opening question. I think M&E is a great category and I've enjoyed it more actually in my time at Roku because we have the best highly performant tools and we deliver great ROI. So before I go at what Anthony spoke about on the M&E side, I want to point out the good news amidst the industry-wide M&E pressure, and it's that we're building share versus the competition in M&E. I mean, advertising is still down in some verticals. As we noted, M&E, tech, and telco have been broadly actually reported on as down by the ad agency holding companies over the last few weeks. But as Anthony said, it'll come back. We do all know that advertising is cyclical. But as an illustration of the M&E marketplace change, has taken place in really less than one year. I was thinking about this. It feels like a long time ago, but in just August and September of last year, that's when HBO Max, now Max, launched its Game of Thrones spinoff. It's when Amazon launched its Lord of the Rings, you know, the Rings of Power TV show. And you're not going to see anything like that this year for all sorts of obvious reasons. And so what a difference a year makes. But As Anthony noted, we've seen some of this come in, and we've been focused on ad diversification. We don't want to be over-reliant on any single vertical, so we continue to diversify and build new revenue sources and new ways to offer what were typically only M&E placements to non-M&E advertisers. So Roku City is a great example. We've introduced a new way for advertisers to connect with consumers, first with McDonald's, which we spoke about at the New Fronts, and more recently, actually last weekend with the Barbie's Roku City Dreamhouse. And these are just a few among several opportunities to integrate advertisers into Roku's unique and broad reach virtual world. And it has remarkable potential. I'm really excited about it. And Roku City is a double win. The advertisers love it. In fact, today we have more demand than capacity in Roku City, and we're looking for ways to expand thoughtfully. And then the streamers love it because it turns out they love seeing real brands in Roku's virtual neighborhood. Actually, just to share some unusually positive buzz for ad integrations. And there were many to choose from. Here are a couple of tweets I actually looked at earlier today regarding the Barbie, Mattel, Walmart, Warner integration. Here's a quote. My dream is to live in the Barbie house in Roku city. And then there are even comments about other advertisers for McDonald's. Here's a quote. Who can I talk to about both keeping the Barbie dream house and also bringing back the McDonald's permanently to Roku city? So we had a world where M&E represented the majority of these opportunities. And we're now focused, as Anthony said, on the diversification of Roku's full funnel offerings. So you'll continue to see successes like Roku City. You'll hear more from us about shoppable ads. And we've been opening up the home screen even to advertising verticals. We mentioned this last earnings call, like restaurants. We talked about Wendy's and DoorDash. We opened it up a little bit to retail and auto, all with the consumer experience team, Gadan's team by our side. So These Roku-only opportunities are just a few examples of how we're continuing to diversify ad categories in unique Roku products, products of scale. And on the M&E side, I think it's important to note that we'll help our M&E partners transfer their focus from account acquisition and account growth to engagement and churn management and retention. It's something we do really well. We're the perfect partner for this, too, because we are closest to the viewing decision for more than 73 million homes. As our M&E partners spend on advertising, Roku will continue to see disproportionate share of investment, I believe, because Roku, frankly, remains the best place for M&E partners and others to invest in accountability, creativity, full funnel marketing opportunities, and ROI.

Shyam Patel Analyst, Susquehanna International Group Great. Thank you, guys.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. One moment for our next question. And our next question. We'll come from Vasily Karasov with Cannonball Research. Your line is open.

Vasily Karasov Analyst, Cannonball Research Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you to talk about the potential impact of the strikes in Hollywood. We all pretty much know what happens to the linear TV when that happens, but I think it's the first time with the streaming being where it is right now. So in terms of the revenue streams within the platform segment, can you please Shrey, you're thinking about what will likely happen to the M&E revenue stream, distribution revenue stream, and then also what you expect the Roku channel to experience as a result. Will the viewership of the library product increase? Will it suffer? I would appreciate your thoughts of what you're bracing for, what you're preparing for in this regard. Thank you.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Thanks, Vasili. Charlie will take that question.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Thanks. Thanks, Vasili. You know, as Dan mentioned in his prepared remarks, I do think it puts added pressure on M&E in the back half. And, of course, there's added pressure on our partners, including those with, you know, upcoming fall schedules. I should pause for a second and say that, of course, we hope that the AMPTP and both guilds reach a fast and equitable resolution. to your question on our platform, you know, there is a huge amount of content here. So, so viewers will have no trouble finding something great to watch. And we are seeing that reflected in our numbers.

Vasily Karasov Analyst, Cannonball Research What about the distribution revenue? Do you think that could take a hit? Uh, because companies will not have marquee shows to promote subscriptions, new subscriptions. So you will not get as many bound dollars and bounties and, uh, that could dampen growth in the second half of the year. Is that a possibility?

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer This is Anthony. I'll take that. I don't think there's going to be much impact on distribution. Just as an aside, we don't really do bounties. We generally get rev shares for billing and signing up new subscribers in that category. You know, so I think the main impact we think will be on our M&E business. At least some additional pressure there. I don't know, Charlie, do you have anything to add?

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Yeah, I think that's right. I think it'll perhaps vary by service, but for us, you know, we have the tools to find viewers what they want to watch, and that's very much what we're focused on.

Moderator Conference Moderator Thank you.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. And our next question comes from Corey Carpenter with JP Morgan. Your line is open.

Corey Carpenter Analyst, J.P. Morgan Hey, thanks for the question. Dan, I had two for you. First, you mentioned 1Q trends played out in 2Q. So just hoping you could expand on what drove the magnitude of the 2Q revenue upside relative to your guide. And then secondly, on the 3Q outlook, just trying to better understand why you expect revenue to be down sequentially. Is there anything else to point to beyond the impact of the strike? Thank you.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, first of all, it's great to hear from you again, Corey. On the Q2 revenue, as we mentioned, it was the platform business that drove the revenue upside, and we did see some rebounding in verticals. that we saw, that the verticals that we mentioned, CPG specifically, was very strong for us as well as some other verticals. That ultimately drove the beat to the guidance, so we're quite happy with that. And with respect to the outlook, it's really what I addressed earlier is It's the M&E continues to be challenging, and we do expect it to be challenged in the back half of H2 for us. It's been challenged in H1, but we think it's going to be further challenged due to the strikes and the fall outlook. So essentially, we are factoring that into our Q3 outlook, which is why you see the growth rate just down slightly on a sequential basis.

Corey Carpenter Analyst, J.P. Morgan Okay, great. And maybe I can sneak one more in since I was fast. Charlie, just could you, I know on the new front process, you don't have numbers this year. It's taking longer to play out. But any color you can give us in terms of the level of demand you're seeing relative to last year or your expectations? Thank you.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Sure. Corey, you're our second three-question aster. Well done. So look, it is a very different year in the upfront for everyone. And you're right, it is proceeding at a slower pace than usual. Look, we're making great progress. You're absolutely right. We're not quite done yet, but we're pacing well. Overall, the good news is we're seeing more advertisers engage with Roku up front due to our broad reach, our innovative ad products, and the powerful tools we offer to attract, engage, and retain audiences. So all signs are good there, and we're methodically working through the market with our agency partners, but I feel good about where we are.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Hey, Corey, this is Anthony. I just learned, you may know this, but Charlie's lead on was 20 upfronts, which I thought was pretty cool.

Corey Thank you.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. Just one moment for our next question. Our next question comes from Laura Martin with Needham. Your line is open.

Laura Martin Analyst, Needham & Company Hey there. So this cost control is really excellent. 8% cost growth last quarter was 42% and the quarter before was 71% growth. But Anthony, you did it at really the R&D line. The R&D line has taken the brunt of it. Okay, all costs are down, but the R&D line fell to negative 2%. So is that actually sustainable now that you've actually launched your 11th? Roku, branded TVs, and you've gotten out of international, can we keep the R&D number at this low number going forward, or is it just a one-time only that really aided cost growth this quarter?

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Anthony, thanks. Yeah, well, I think two things. One is that we are still investing significantly in our key growth initiatives, things like expanding active accounts, Roku TV, monetization. you know, billing premium subscriptions, expanding the ways we can help viewers find content. And, you know, a lot of the, I would say one of the initiatives we're taking, which we don't talk about much is, you know, we have R&D offices around the world. You know, we have, obviously we have offices in Silicon Valley, but we have great teams in Manchester, England, Cambridge, UK, Taipei, and in other places. And so one of the things that we've been doing is doing a lot more of our hiring in regions outside the United States to have great engineering talent, but are just less expensive than Silicon Valley engineers. So that's one of the ways we're controlling our R&D costs. I'm still getting lots of great engineers.

Laura Martin Analyst, Needham & Company Okay. And then my second question, and I will not have three, is I want to push a little bit on this issue of CTV versus full funnel. So before this year, you went into the upfront in the linear TV, which was a benchmark against the $20 CPM as a substitute for linear TV, which had data. So you were getting $30 CPMs from 2017 to around numbers, 2020. So this year you went into the new front and the go-to-market strategy pivoted to full funnel come to us because we can dose both the awareness drive. We can drive awareness so we can drive shoppable with Walmart and with Shopify. My question is, When you start moving down the funnel, you start competing with a $2 CPM. And I noticed your ARPUs here are down 7%. Okay. My question is, are you adding risk? Does it really do more good than harm to re-pivot the offering, your go-to-market offering to a full funnel and lose that benchmark of the $20 CPM that comes with broadcast TV substitute?

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer So let me, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll answer that, and then I don't know if Charlie or Dan might have more to add. We'll see. First of all, you mentioned ARPU down. I mean, that's being driven by the fact that monetization has slowed down due to the slowdown in the ad business, yet active accounts are still growing strong. And so just when you do the math, you get a lower ARPU number. I don't think it indicates anything more than that, and I expect it to start picking back up again when the ad business rebounds. In terms of Full Funnel, we've launched things like shoppable ads, which allow purchasing right inside the ad. But those shoppable ads, of course, still have the sight and sound of high-definition video. They're very engaging. And we still sell lots of ads to brand advertisers. So I think we're just trying to expand the different target markets we can sell ads to. And there might be different pricing depending on the channel or the ad or the customer or the content or lots of factors. I think it's all about, for us, diversifying our ad revenue and tapping into all the different sources that are out there. We've made progress on that, but there's still, I think, a long way to go there. Charlie, do you want to add?

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media I think that's absolutely right. I also think you shouldn't read into the pivots as one or the other. One thing that is just so powerful about Roku is that we really can do what television does best, which is broad reach and sight, sound, and motion, and we can be accountable. And so when we talk about full funnel, it's a differentiator because, look, you know, What I'm there to do on the advertising side of the business is help them be effective. And so by noting that we can be great at the top of the funnel and accountable at the bottom of the funnel, we're helping build businesses in a way that most people can't. So that is a really important message. And then I want you to look also during the upfront. We made a primetime reach guarantee. And that's obviously the opposite of lower funnel. What we're saying is that Roku can reach, you look at the top five cable networks on average, we can outreach them. And so Anthony is absolutely right. We're looking at, you know, not just serving the advertisers, but actually taking advantage of all the ways we can monetize Roku.

Anthony Thank you. Thank you.

Operator Conference Operator And our next question. One moment. It comes from Vikram Kesev, Bottle with Baird. Your line is open.

Vikram Kesev Analyst, Robert W. Baird & Co. Yeah, thank you for taking the questions. I wanted to ask about the progress that you're making with third-party DSPs, and I'm curious if you can talk about the early impacts you're seeing on pricing and fill rates and how you expect that to evolve from here. And then separately, just based on the current state of macro trends and industry trends, I'm curious if you can offer any early perspective on what fourth quarter revenues might look like this year and some of the puts and takes we should be taking into consideration. Thanks.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Hey, Vikram. So, Charlie can take the DSP question and then Dan can talk about fourth quarter revenue.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Great. Thanks for the question. Look, we sell ads through multiple channels. There's direct IO, you know, through our sales team programmatically through a DSP. And by the way, often that is also enabled through our sales teams. And recently, as you know, we've more actively engaged with third-party DSPs. And to your question, we're seeing incremental budgets, no doubt about it. We believe these relationships have long-term potential, so it is working. And I should note, it's off a small base, so it's early days, but it's going well. So headline is, you know, no doubt we're getting budgets now that we weren't getting before, and I think these relationships have really strong long-term potential.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, Vikram, on the fourth quarter guide, you know, we'll obviously update you when we report our third quarter results. We're not guiding the fourth quarter. I will just say that we do expect the second half to be similar to what we've seen, what we've guided to in the first half, the second half to be similar to what we've seen in Q2. We factored that into our guide for Q3. And again, we'll update the group in our Q3 results for further guidance for Q4.

Moderator Conference Moderator Okay, thank you.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. One moment for our next question. We have a question from Justin Patterson with KeyBank. Your line is open.

Justin Patterson Analyst, KeyBanc Capital Markets Great. Thanks, and good afternoon. Two, if I can. First, I just want to touch on platform gross margin. That was up a little bit sequentially. Curious if there were just, you know, anything beyond mixed, perhaps some one-timers. or promotions just driving that uptick. And then secondly, you know, you called out again just the softer scatter market this quarter. Would love to hear you just dimension out how Roku's scatter is performing relative to the overall industry. Thank you.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Hey, Justin, Dan can take the first part, and Charlie can talk about scatter.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, on the platform gross margin for Q2, it was mixed, which caused a slight uptick. You know, with M&E, we did see, you know, it improved from Q1 to Q2. It was, you know, we had a very tough quarter for M&E and Q1, and we did see some upticks. So we did see some positive sequential change from Q1 to Q2 due to M&E. That said, as I said in the prepared remarks, we do expect M&E to be pressured in H2, which is why we expect just a slight tick down in platform gross profit for Q3.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Yeah, thanks. And on the scatter side, you know, I think it is a story of categories. Dan mentioned, you know, CPG and health and wellness and a few others are really, you know, showing green shoots. And we've repeated it a few times, you know, M&E, tech and telco, you won't be surprised to hear it's challenging us. So we're seeing that in the marketplace. And again, I think the overall trends that are benefiting us just are the viewership trends. We used to have to tell people, even in my early tenure here, that the linear decline was continuing and connected TV was growing, and now they say it to us and look to us as a solution. So I think we'll see that more and more as the scatter markets roll out.

Moderator Conference Moderator Thank you. Thank you.

Operator Conference Operator And our next question will come from Matthew Thornton with Truist Securities. Your line is open.

Basil Hey, good afternoon, guys. Thanks for taking the question. Maybe one for, I'm not sure if it's for Charlie or Anthony, and then one for Dan. Maybe for Charlie, or I guess a follow-up to the prior question around leaning into some of that third-party demand. I'm wondering if you can either quantify, are we at a point yet where maybe we're getting a point type of lift on revenue growth and And again, to use the old baseball analogy, we kind of in the first inning there, just any further color there would be helpful. And then one for Dan. Dan, as we think about the devices business as the branded TVs ramp, they carry a higher ASP, so that'll start to become revenue intensive. And so my question is around how you're thinking about gross margin strategy and devices. Can we get back to to break even next year? Do you think that business will run at break even or low single digits over time? I'm just kind of curious how you think about that, because the revenue line theoretically could get bigger with branded TVs. Thanks, guys.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer This is Anthony. I'll answer the question on third-party DSPs. And then if Charlie has anything else to add, he can jump in, and then we can talk about device margins. You know, I think that, I mean, we're obviously not breaking out numbers for third party DSPs. The numbers, I think, are relatively, the base is relatively modest, but we're seeing strong growth. So we think it's got a lot of potential, but it's going to take a little while to build I don't know if there's anything we can say beyond that. Charlie?

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media I think we're very conscious of making sure that it's not cannibalistic. And so some of what I think you'd want to see us do when we're doing it actively is just make sure that it's additive and make sure that we're growing within our long-term business plan. So, so far, so good.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Dan, do you want to? On the device question, Matt, you know, for our first-party TVs, we'll have a different Margin outlook, that's right. Obviously, a different revenue outlook relative to the licensed side of the business. And right now, the bulk of the device revenue is, in fact, players, along with a smaller amount of first-party TVs and our smart home product. On the longer-term strategy on margins, again, we'll update you more as we go. It's very early days for us in first-party TVs. We like what we see so far. I think we mentioned we're getting extraordinarily good ratings at 4.5 out of 5 stars on all our models. at Best Buy, so we love that. But the margin structure, it's just really small right now, so it's not showing up in the financials. And we'll update you more as we sell more, but a lot of that will be, of course, market-based pricing. And Mustafa and team are excellent at driving the bomb costs for these products. So we'll update you more as it becomes a bigger portion of our device revenue.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer This is Anthony. I'll just remind everyone that our business model does not include making money on devices. Devices are a customer acquisition channel for us, and how much we spend there varies based on a lot of factors, including looking at the value of the customers we receive and the return from different segments of distribution. We're not talking about next year, but as a general rule, It's not profit maximizing or value maximizing for us to try and make the device business profitable.

Moderator Conference Moderator Because the service business is so much more profitable.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. One moment for our next question. And we have a question from Nicholas Zangler with Stevens. Your line is open.

Nicholas Zangler Yeah. Hey, guys. You know, what's the takeaway on upfront negotiations proceeding at a slower pace? Just wondering if you could peel back the dynamic there. And we've heard of advertisers looking for more flexibility in these upfront commitments than in prior years, which I think would naturally push Aspen into the scatter market. But if that is true, just wondering if you could frame up the implications there for Roku.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Sure. Charlie can take that. Sure. Thanks for the question, Nick. You know, you look at the upfronts and really what people are doing is placing money down early to lock in products of value, products they value in the 12 months of the upfront cycle. And it varies every year how they do so, right? Depending on what they think they can get and scatter. And frankly, based on the uncertainty of their businesses and how much they can commit in advance. So, The pace reflects that, and I think what it says, and it's not an issue for the business so long as the business is running by fourth quarter, that it comes in in July or June or May as it has in some really healthy years. So long as it's running by fourth quarter, the upfront cycle starts. And I just think you'll see a different mix this year of upfront scatter because there's not the need, for instance, to lay down that money or people are seeing the uncertainty and decide to hold it till closer to order because they don't think they can get the inventory that they want. The flexibility issue is certainly one as well. As they lay down money earlier in a market where perhaps there's not as much early demand, the return, what they're asking for in return is flexibility. So it's not unusual at all that these would be the issues on the table during an upfront. The result is a slower pace, but again, the dollars they are committing don't start running till October. So what I like about our trends is that we have more advertisers participating and more people coming to us for solutions. And I think that holds us in good stead, whether the money comes upfront or in scatter.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer I mean, I guess I would just add that we, I would just say that we've traditionally done very well in the scatter market is how we built our ad business initially. So we'll see what happens this coming in this coming season, but traditionally it's been, we've been strong in the scatter.

Nicholas Zangler Right. And to that point, then are you kind of agnostic to whether it comes via direct or scatter? If we were to see an upfront number come in, you know, similar to last year, I mean, I don't necessarily think that has to be perceived as a negative if, ultimately more dollars come in through the scatter market. But is that the right way to view the dynamic, you know, whether the dollars come in direct for scatter?

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Charlie? Yeah, sure. I think that's right. You know, obviously, pace impacts pricing, but we're very well positioned to even take late money. So sure, as long as the money comes, I think the mix of upfront and scatter does change in every marketplace. And it's getting a little more discussion now simply because of the pace. But I think that's a good way to look at it. That's right.

Nicholas Zangler Got it. And then, you know, finally, just on the Roku TV strategy, just curious, you know, what does success look like for you guys on the Roku branded TV program? Is this merely a complimentary gateway to the consumer? Or for you, is this a strategy that over time you might look to aggressively take market share and maybe do so through price and potentially become effectively a leading TV OEM? Just thoughts on this overall strategy. Thank you.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer This is Anthony. I'll get the initial answer and then Mustafa can add more detail. So, you know, you just think about the Roku TV program and the Roku branded TVs are all part of our device team or device efforts. And our device efforts are all around building active accounts. And that's going extremely well. It's an area that we've always been good at, you know, led by the purpose-built operating system that we built just for TV. I mean, compared to all of our competitors that have basically taken mobile operating systems and ported them to TVs, we've built from the beginning an operating system from the ground up designed specifically for TVs. And we distribute it various ways. We distribute it You know, built into our streaming players, built into the TVs that we work with, our licensed OEM partners, and then our own branded TVs. And that, you know, in aggregate, that's resulted in the United States as becoming the number one streaming platform. We're also, like I said, number one in Mexico. and doing well in a lot of other regions. In the U.S. specifically, we're approaching half of all broadband households now using a Roku device to watch television. So the overall mix of different kinds of ways to reach the consumer has been very successful for us. And players, for example, some people talk about the demise of players. I mean, we don't see that. We sell tens of millions of players a year that add new accounts or increase engagement with existing accounts. When it comes to TVs, TVs are now the most important way that we add active accounts. And by far, still the license program, the license, the program where we license our platforms to OEMs is the largest part of that. And then the Roku branded program is something that's new. It's going well. And it's got a few different purposes. And I'll let Mustafa talk about that.

Mustafa Ozcan President, Devices Yeah. Hi, Nicholas. Mustafa here. Thank you for the question. Yeah, for us, the Roku brand TVs are about really expanding the choice for the consumers. And they're also a strong demonstration of our commitment to further strengthen the Roku TV ecosystem itself with additional innovations and investments that we are making. And we also announced that before that we are sharing our innovations and the learnings with our partners. So it's about the, you know, strengthen this ecosystem and, you know, growing the overall Roku TV licensing program. And as Dan mentioned, actually, you know, although we launched these products really recently in mid-March, early days are showing that we can actually build good TVs that can get great press reviews. For instance, the Roku Plus series won the Tom's Guide Award for best value TV. Again, it shows that we can contribute to the Roku TV ecosystem, although to some extent we are offering a competitive product, but in reality, whatever we build to build this best value TV, it's actually going to our third-party licensing program as well. It's a completely shared program. You know, not only the press reviews, but customer reviews were also great. You know, again, as Dan mentioned, that all 11 models that we are selling at Best Buy, who is our exclusive retailer for the Roku branded TVs, they received at least a 4.5 star out of 5 star rating, which is, again, a great indication that we can build good products and contribute to Roku TV program. Again, as Anthony said, just to emphasize, Roku brand TVs are really a great way to complement to the primary way we distribute our platform, which is through our TV licensing partners and the Roku streaming players. So that's how we see the mix going forward.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Yeah, this is Anthony. I think that covers it, but I'll just add, you know, the primary way we're going to, the primary way to distribute our platform through TVs is through our licensing program. You know, the Roku branded program, I think is incremental to that. If we see it, driving innovation, which we'll pass on to our partners via a licensing program. And it also helps us fill gaps, you know, that maybe our partners are not filling or demand, incremental demand that they're not addressing allows us to go after that. Great.

Shyam Patel Analyst, Susquehanna International Group Thanks, guys.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. Our next question comes from Ross. Walt Hall with Cleveland Research Company. Your line is open.

Ross Walt Hall Analyst, Cleveland Research Thanks, guys, for the question. I just had a question on the new Shopify partnership. What's the initial feedback that you're getting on that? And I'm curious if you could share any of the early success stories or learnings from shoppable ads generally.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Sure, Charlie.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Sure. Thanks, Ross. We're really excited about the Shopify partnership. I should note up front that our goal is to make the TV screen accessible by businesses of all sizes, not just the largest businesses. And so this first of its kind partnership with Shopify provides viewers the ability to seamlessly purchase products from Shopify merchants directly online. from their TV using Roku shoppable ads. So literally, you just click OK on your remote, you check out automatically with Roku Pay, and an order confirmation from the Shopify merchant hits your inbox. It really is that easy. So you asked about a couple of partners, True Classic, which is a men's apparel brand, the game-based connected rower eRegatta, and Wellness Brown, Ollie, have all signed on as initial partners. Now, it's still early days in terms of teaching the consumer how to shop on the TV screen just like they do on their phones. But to your point, this is something that Roku is excited about and is uniquely positioned to do. So we're seeing positive signs for this new ad format, and it's a new purchase point for the consumer. So I think there's a lot of good news ahead.

Ross Walt Hall Analyst, Cleveland Research Thanks, Charlie. And then one follow-up on margins. I know a little bit of discussion earlier about M&E being part of the pressure point in the Q3 margin guide for the platform business. Just if you step back and think longer term, what do you need to see in order to get back to the high 50s margins? Does that require meaningful recovery in the M&E business or are there other avenues to get back there? Thanks.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer This is Anthony. I'll kick that off and probably maybe turn that over to Dan. I think the margins are primarily related to the mix. With M&E down, there's less M&E, which is higher margin. I think there's two ways. From my point of view, there's two things that will address that. One is I think the reduction in demand right now is completely cyclical. It's related to the slowdown of the ad business impacting our M&E partners. That's also related to the you know, the strikes. And so I think those things will change and we'll see it pick back up again. We're also, you know, we also continue to build out the features in our platform that are used by M&E promotions and sold as part of M&E promotions and making them even more effective. And so I think it's already a very effective way to drive engagement and subscriptions from partner services, but it's just going to get better. I mean, we're making it a lot better, making it better. And then the other, the other part of it is like Charlie said, we're, M&E is mostly inventory in the user experience, mostly ad units and the static ad units in the user experience. And there's a lot of opportunity to expand the type of advertisers that we sell those ads to. Like, for example, T-Mobile sponsored our sports zone. We talked about the McDonald's in Roku City. And so we're expanding the client base that we sell those ads to to relevant brand advertisers. as well. So I think all that's going to increase sales over the long term of what we would today call M&E. And then I don't know, Dan, if you want to add.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer The only thing I'd add is, I think I stated earlier that we are seeing strong margins across all our platform ad categories. So there is a mixed impact. And yes, M&E has a disproportionately higher margin. And we do expect at some point M&E to start to recover again. And also, we are diversifying, and things like Roku City also have higher margins, so there are opportunities to grow our margins outside of M&E as well.

Moderator Conference Moderator Thanks, guys. Congrats on your quarter. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. We have a question from Jason Helfstein from Oppenheimer. Your line is open.

Jason Helfstein Hey, two questions. First, there was an interesting choice of words using modest to describe 11% platform growth. So if that's modest, what's normal? So that's one. And then second, Charlie, can you talk about how you're supporting third-party DSP demand? Are you doing SSP integrations, direct integrations with DSPs or both? Thanks.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Let's see. Dissecting our adjectives. I don't know. Dan, you're good with adjectives.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, that is probably one of the more difficult questions I've been asked. To say it's modest, I don't know when we said it was modest. I will say we're very happy with our Q2 results. I think we talked a little bit about our guidance and what's driving it. And I go back to my original comments on why I came to Roku and how much runway there is ahead of us from an opportunity standpoint on the monetization front. So outside of that, I will say, again, we have a lot of runway ahead of us to grow. And maybe we'll just choose our adjectives better when we explain a double-digit growth rate for Q2.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Yeah, on DSPs, I mean... You know, there's direct technical integration with the DSPs at multiple levels. And we've had that for a long time as well as obviously we have our own ad tech stack that we continue to make better. We integrate DSPs, third-party DSPs into that ad tech stack. And then we have a lot of levers on how we choose to work with them. And I would say, I mean, without getting into details, I would characterize The way we're working with them now versus before is just much more active in ways that I think are going to drive more success. So I don't know, Charlie, if you want to add anything.

Charlie Collier President, Roku Media Well, first of all, as the first person in media to be asked anything with the word modest in it, I appreciate that. But secondly, I think that's 100% right. And it's the levers that we lean on to meet advertisers where they wish to transact. So Anthony is right on the tech stack. We're remarkably proud of our tech stack and the team that builds it. And then we are... coming to market in ways that is showing signs of new accounts and new account growth. So it is a lot of it is still manual, to be honest, and works through our sales teams. But we are working in different ways with third party DSPs in the way Anthony described. Thank you.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. And our last question will come from Ralph Shackett with William Blair. Your line is open.

Ralph Shackett Analyst, William Blair & Company Great. Thanks for squeezing me in. Just a question, kind of going back to the macro a little bit. Maybe can you talk about the linearity of the ad platform revenue growth as it progressed the quarter? You know, so how did you start out versus how did that end up through the quarter? Just one for me. Thanks.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Dan will take that.

Dan Jetta Chief Financial Officer Yeah, you know, I guess I would say the pacing was consistent throughout the quarter. And, you know, really, I guess, you know, we haven't we did see that improvement in those verticals. I would say that those that has transpired. There's nothing within the quarter that we saw that that changed outside of, you know, any normal trends that we have in a quarter. So really not much to add beyond that. from an intra-quarter standpoint.

Anthony Wood Founder and Chief Executive Officer Okay, thank you. But they were modest changes.

Moderator Conference Moderator Right. I would say.

Operator Conference Operator Thank you. I would now like to turn the conference back over to Anthony Wood for any closing remarks.

Moderator Conference Moderator Thanks to everyone for joining the call, and thanks to our employees, customers, content partners, and advertisers.

Operator Conference Operator This concludes today's conference call. Thank you for participating. Sushi. Sushi.

spk16 Sushi. Sushi. Sushi. Bring it. This competition is about understanding the fundamentals and traditions in sushi and Japanese cuisine. And using your own styles as a chef. to make something truly amazing and unique. Chef Musaharu Morimoto. Definitely in awe right now. I grew up watching him. He's a legend. The best Japanese chef out there.

spk01 Since I just opened a sushi restaurant, I'm so excited.

spk00 You don't even know how happy I am to be competing with another female chef.

Basil He's like pretty. Japanese food is about being pretty. He's going to have to come by and approve my work before I can move on.

spk16 It's okay, chef. No comment. This could be anyone's game.

Jason Helfstein Sushi has a lot of rules. Let's make sushi rules.

spk16 I really want this. I'm ready.

Jason Helfstein This is going to be really fun.
