Company: Netflix
Symbol: NFLX
Exchange: NASDAQ
Year: 2023
Quarter: Q1
Source: https://earningscall.biz/e/nasdaq/s/nflx/y/2023/q/q1
Extracted At (UTC): 2026-02-17T10:18:12.666874+00:00

---
Spencer Wong VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development Hello, and welcome to the Netflix Q1 2023 earnings interview. I'm Spencer Wong, VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development. Joining me today are co-CEOs Ted Sarandos and Greg Peters and CFO Spence Newman. Our interviewer this quarter is Jessica Reif-Ehrlich. And as a reminder, we will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may vary. With that, Jessica, I'm going to turn it over to you for your first question.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Thank you. So let's start with Ted and Greg. You've worked together for over 15 years, but this is your first quarter as co-CEOs. Are there any highlights you want to share?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Well, Jessica, as you pointed out, it's been our first quarter together as co-CEOs, but 15 years working together. And in those 15 years, you build a lot of respect and trust in each other to help you get through some trying times. Not to let you down about there's no drama, but this was pretty much a business as usual quarter for us, having done this together for so long. And Greg and I enjoy this same kind of trust, respect, and shorthand that I enjoyed with Reed for so many years. I know Greg did as well. So it's not as eventful as folks might have thought. And it's really been incredibly and wonderfully professionally stimulating to have a co-CEO. to get to tackle big problems together. So I think one of the things that we'll look back at Reed's incredible 25 years at Netflix, one of the great accomplishments is facilitating this very, very smooth transition and succession.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Great. So you've recently reduced prices in 116 countries. Is this a more local approach similar to what you did in India in 2021? Or is the impetus to enable a successful introduction of password sharing and advertising tiers?

Greg Peters Co-CEO I can take this one if you want, Jessica. This is really about, you know, we talked for the last few quarters about further refining our pricing strategy and monetization. And if you think back to when we did our global launch in 2016, it was pretty much across the board, a bit of a skim approach and not particularly sophisticated in terms of our pricing. So think of this as kind of that next step in our evolution of a bit of a better market fit, product market fit, pricing fit. um with the aim of growing our penetration in these markets and also better medium and and a long-term revenue so better for our members better for our business but I want to emphasize this is not a material to our business anytime in the near term for sure so it's a lot of countries but it represents less than five percent of our revenue um and so it's uh it's something that will over the long term hopefully will benefit us and you know we can point to you know an example in success is sort of like what we saw in india so last year back in december of 21 we launched we dropped prices in india between 20 to 60 we saw engagement over the past year grow by about 30 high growth in paid net ads and also revenue fx neutral revenue growth actually accelerated from uh 19 in the year prior to 24 last year so that's you know we're not saying every market's going to play out like that but that's what it would look like in success

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Great. Let's move on to password sharing. What have you seen in your Q1 new market launches, churn as well as conversion? And can you give us any specific color on what you've seen in Canada, whether it's in terms of new subs versus add-ons?

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, I'll take that 1. so, uh, this, this is an important transition for us. And so we're working hard to make sure that we do it. Well, and as thoughtfully as we can. Uh, this last set of country rollouts have gone well, and maybe most importantly, we're directionally consistent with what we saw in Latin America. So, just to remind people what that looks like very much like a price increase. We see an initial cancel reaction. And then we build out of that both in terms of membership and revenue as borrowers sign up for their own Netflix accounts and existing members purchase that extra member facility for folks that they want to share with. So, first of all, it was a strong validation to see consistent results in these new countries because, you know, they're different market characteristics, different from each other and also different from the original Latin American rollout countries. So to get to a positive outcome, you mentioned Canada, you know, we're in now in a positive member and positive revenue position relative to pre rollout. So that's a really strong confirmation that we've got an approach that we can apply in many different countries with different market characteristics. including our largest revenue countries. In fact, we actually, we could have launched that solution. We actually considered that option. But we also learned from this last set of launches about some improvements we can do, especially in areas that matter a lot to our members. Things like having seamless access to Netflix as they've always been using it on the go or while traveling. as well as making sure that we've got good tools for them to manage access to their accounts and their devices. So all in, we felt based on those results, it was better to take a little bit of extra time, incorporate those learnings and make this transition as smooth as possible as we can for members. And we think that approach also best serves the long-term business goals as well. So we're gonna launch this new improved version broadly, including in the United States in Q2.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer So as a follow-up, so the cadence, you just said the US and Q2, how about the rest of the world? And is there, can you give us your thoughts on pricing and whether you have a preference for a current borrower to become a subscriber or an add-on?

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, so that launch we're doing in Q2 is a very broad launch, includes the United States, includes many, many other countries. I mean, we reserve the right for some countries where we think there's a different approach, but I would say the bulk of our countries, and certainly when you think about from a revenue perspective, the vast majority will be rolling out in Q2. Um, you mentioned in terms of pricing, uh, you know, we'll look at that on a market by market basis, but obviously we tested different pricing. Uh, in these last rollouts, then we'll be tested in Latin America and that gives you a sense about how we're thinking about. Um, you know, what is optimal pricing, especially in, um, more affluent countries. So I'll leave it at that. Um, and then in terms of preference, what we're trying to do is create a structure that really, um, supports choice. So that gives an opportunity for folks to, to spin off to, uh, borrow accounts where they think that's the right solution for them or for use cases, which are legitimate use cases where somebody wants to, you know, uh, basically you know buy netflix for you know a family member or something like that we want that extra member um you know to be in place too so we don't really have i'd say a strong preference we're not trying to steer um in one perspective other than using pricing you know to both satisfy those you know customer choice goals as well as thinking about long-term revenue optimization

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer One more on password sharing. Are there any incremental costs? It seems like content, distribution, marketing are already in your expenses. So is the incremental margin 100% or are there plans to reinvest some of this revenue so it doesn't all flow through?

Spence Newman CFO Well, I'll leave it to go ahead. Go for it. Yeah.

Greg Peters Co-CEO Yeah. Yeah. There's there's really not other than just kind of just the general kind of allocation of resources. I wouldn't say there's a real incremental cost to this, but of course, we always want to reinvest. So, as you kind of see with our, our, our kind of guidance and our objectives, generally, Jessica, we're looking to. re-accelerate our revenue growth. That's the path that we're on right now. And as we do that, we want to kind of balance gradually increasing margins. You see that in our guide where we're looking to tick up margins a bit to the 18% to 20% range full year relative to just under 18% last year, but balance that with that big prize ahead of us. So reinvesting to more and more great entertainment for our members and drive that flywheel of more entertainment, more value for members and ultimately more and more members over time and then build a really really big and profitable business

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer So let's move on to advertising. Netflix appears to have a huge advantage in let's call it television advertising. I mean, you pretty much have nothing to lose from a legacy perspective and everything to gain on an AVOD platform. Given the limited ad load, premium video content, your humongous reach and engagement with some pretty hard to reach demographics, as well as the ongoing mass transition from linear to streaming, your position is enviable. Having said that, You seem to be very careful in your advertising rollout. Can you give us your key learnings to date and what the growing pains have been so far?

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, as you state, we're, you know, significantly optimistic about the long term opportunity for the reasons that you mentioned. But, you know, we've always expected and we can expect, frankly, this to be a gradual build. It follows, you know, a very similar process that we've used in so many other areas where, you know, we get in, we learn as we go, we iterate and we found that, you know, having that approach. You know, it yields basically great long term outcomes as we sort of grow and learn. So I would say, you know, where we're at today, you know, we've got a lot of work to do to develop, continue to develop features that support advertisers. We're rolling out things like measurement and verification, but we've got a bigger, longer, longer roadmap that we have to go do there. We're improving our go to market and sales capabilities in partnership with Microsoft. There's a lot of good work that we have to go do. And some of this is hard work because it's very country by country. You've seen us add programmatic private marketplace that gives advertisers more ways to buy as we grow inventory. And then we're also trying to improve things on the consumer facing side. So, you know, we're adding more features to the ad plan. We're making that experience better for members. And, you know, through that sort of process, you know, we, you know, expect those iterations, which we're trying to go as fast as we can on them while being judicious and thoughtful about the business to really, you know, add up over a period of time into a significant, you know, highly material and highly lucrative, high margin business.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer but there's plenty to go do and you know and we're trying to maintain a fast pace but also a thoughtful pace given a lot of press reports uh regarding your buildup of ad tech capabilities can you provide an overview of plans time frame and cost

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, I would say, you know, we have ambition, you know, to be innovative in this space. And a lot of that innovation is thinking about not a one size fits all in terms of the member experience and thinking about, you know, what's the right time to fly to NAD, things like that. But I would also say that, you know, we're very much in the mode right now where we're doing a lot of work that is following a well-trodden path to build a, you know, big business back to, you know, when you think about, you know verification measurement etc um you know what we're doing on programmatic um those are you know sort of i'd say relatively straightforward things so a lot of the work that we're doing is really um heavily in that space and then in terms of incremental costs like expense do you want to you know chime in here

Greg Peters Co-CEO sure i see i'd say um just generally jessica we try to you know in all of this you know firstly we've always we've talked about this crawl walk run which which greg mentioned being very thoughtful methodical we're building the business and and with that also how it how it impacts our our overall financials, our revenue, and our incremental profit contribution. And we believe we can do that in a very healthy way. So that's what we're building towards. So yes, there is some cost to this, both in terms of the cost to the Microsoft partnership and the cost to kind of some building out of our capabilities, people as well as tech capabilities, but all very manageable. We also talked about a little bit of content costs as we we continue to kind of we we increased our level of of content parity on the t on the plan uh this past quarter which is great so it's about 95 plus of of viewing parity which is again a great progress so we're we keep moving forward but this is all at a level that we believe is not just better for our members with a lower priced option but better for our business and we think we could do it with um and are doing it in a way that's i would say without being overly specific think of it as like

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer you know 50 or more incremental profit contribution um to the business when you come to the may um advertising upfront which is in a couple of weeks um it sounds like you're coming with the standards here now um do you have any plans to introduce it to your premium tier and how much scale um meaning you know how many steps you expect on the platform when you when you roll out when the upfront commitments come in in in the fall how much scale will you have

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, so on your first question, you know, we're always thinking about and working to improve that plan structure, the pricing. We've got two goals in mind when we do that. One is, you know, we want to give a wide range of consumers and ideally increasingly wide range of consumers access to our great stories at a range of prices with appropriate, you know, corresponding features. The second goal is thinking about optimizing long-term revenue. You know, a good example of this is, you know, based on the economics of our ads plan, based on the limited switching behavior that we've seen off of standard and premium, we've upgraded the ads plan features, both in terms of video resolution or video quality and number of concurrent streams, because we think it supports both of those goals. So that's a good example of that. I would say beyond that, we've got, you know, we'll continue to evaluate as we always do. You've seen us make moves in this space before, but we've got nothing more to add on that today. And then in terms of scale, obviously we're growing. Every day we grow and we're seeking to continue to grow, but we're not going to sort of announce or a target or what we expect forecast, let's say, for upfronts at this point.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer One more advertising question and then I'll move on. But can you provide ARPU specifics on what you've seen so far? Because you mentioned in the release that the revenue is actually higher than even standard. So it seems like so far so good.

Greg Peters Co-CEO Yeah, I can jump in. I mean, yes, overall, we're pleased with our kind of per member ad plan economics. It's higher than our basic plan overall. And as you say, in the U.S., it's actually even higher than our standard plan. So we really like the path we're on, the trajectory we have. And as I said, it's kind of a win-win because it's a lower price option for our members. And it's both kind of incremental revenue, incremental profit for the business. So it makes the business stronger, which of course we can then reinvest into more and more great entertainment. So we like the path, but again, it's early. We're only a couple quarters into this, Jessica, so we're going to get better, as Greg said, better targeting and measurement, better kind of tools and buying options for advertisers. So we think all of that will actually kind of build on this so that we'll reinforce and strengthen that kind of premium CPM ad network that we're building.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer So maybe switching gears a little bit to the capital returns and free cash flow. You did raise your free cash flow guidance, but you kept your margins the same for this year. What are your longer-term margin growth or expectations at this point? Pre-COVID, you had indicated 300 basis points of improvement per year over a few-year period. Can you provide any update to that?

Greg Peters Co-CEO We've never provided a long-term guide to our margins, but I'd say we're already in a place where we feel great about the business that we have. It's a great business model. It's a business at scale with over $30 billion of revenue. you know, healthy profit margins, growing margins, growing free cash flow. So that's sort of the starting point. And as I mentioned before, we're trying to balance as we reaccelerate revenue, kicking up those margins with also reinvesting back into the business, back into that member base, back into that big prize where we feel like we're so small today. We've talked on recent earnings calls where we represent, we believe, roughly 5% of that direct consumer spend in the areas of entertainment, that we're participating in today, primarily in film, TV, and games. And when we think about even just the member population that's available, those 1 billion plus broadband households, and even today, you know, roughly 450, 500 million of those being connected TV households, and we only have 230 million-ish paying members today, roughly, right? So that's why we're so focused on addressing with paid sharing and then just making our business and the value that we bring to the service better each day to bring in more members. So that's really what we're working towards. And then long-term, we don't see ourselves approaching a near-term ceiling. There's lots of proxies out there. Entertainment services and networks at scale traditionally have been well above our roughly 20% operating margin. So we believe we have a long way to go and we have some inherent advantages. We're a truly global entertainment network, perhaps the first. with really healthy leading engagement and a really scalable content model. So we believe we've got a long way to go, but not really putting more specific guidance out for now.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO It's just been, just so I could add an example of that, of the scale of the business being global, is that every one of our big content wins start as a local win. And then in success, they roll out and they get regional, then they reach the diaspora, then they get global and it's a huge success. And there's no marginal cost to all that additional audience when we get it right. So by creating those stories that drive growth of the business in local territories, it provides content into the pool that people can fall in love with, and it's just as likely that we can get a gigantic hit from anywhere in the world. And that's really the scale of our operating business. And going back to what Sven said about the potential to even grow margins beyond where we're at today is very, very high.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Could you give us an update on your capital return plans? I mean, how are you thinking about, you know, you announced the 1.2 million buyback in Q1, but relative to your free cash flow and incredible balance sheet, you have a lot of capacity. So, you know, can you give us any color on how you're thinking about capital returns over the longer term?

Spencer Wong VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development Sure.

Greg Peters Co-CEO Spencer, do you want to take that one?

Spencer Wong VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development Yeah, I can take that one. Thanks, Jessica, for the question. And we are Happy to be fully investment grade as of Q1. So that's a nice milestone for the company. And you're right, there's no change to our capital allocation philosophy. So we are still targeting to maintain minimum cash equivalent to roughly two months of revenue. Based on the Q1 numbers, that's about $5.4 billion of minimum cash. We ended the quarter with about $7.8 billion on the balance sheet. So we do have about $2.4 billion of excess cash. So that is why we did indicate in the letter that our share repurchases will accelerate over the course of the year. And then one other minor thing I forgot to mention in my intro that this video interview will include forward looking statements and actual results may vary. So I do want to say that, and here's evidence that this video interview is actually not scripted. So back to you, Jessica.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Thank you. So Ted, how are you preparing for a potential writer's strike? Potential is not likely.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Well, Jessica, let's first say we respect The writers, um, and we've respected and we couldn't be here without them. Um, we don't want to strike the last time there was a strike. It was devastating to creators. It was really hard in the industry. It was painful for local economies and support production. And it was very, very, very bad for fans. Uh, so if there's a strike, uh, and we want to work really hard to make sure we can find a fair and equitable. deal so we can avoid one. But if there is one, we have a large base of upcoming shows and films from around the world that we could probably serve our members better than most. And we really don't We really don't want this to happen, but we have to make plans for the worst. And so we do have a pretty robust slate of releases to take us into a long time. But just be clear, we're at the table and we're going to try to get to an equitable solution so there isn't a strike.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer And beyond the strike, just, you know, once you get past that, how do you expect content spending to change over the next few years? You've kind of been at this $17 billion cadence. You know, does it depend on revenue growth?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Can you give us some color in how you're thinking about that? Well, yes, it depends on revenue growth. And also keep in mind that the way that revenue or the way that content spend hits us, it's with startup productions and deliveries. We still work through or we came through or comping off of those post-COVID floodgates opening. And so that does, you know, throw makes the content spend a little lumpier. We expect to be back to about the 17 billion level in 24. And and the rate of growth depends on the rate of revenue growth for sure.

Greg Peters Co-CEO And just to add to Ted's point, because I totally agree with all of that. But again, there's a big opportunity ahead. So I just want to reinforce that. We said we'd stay at roughly $17 billion on average over a few-year period, over that 2022 to 2024 period. But there's a big entertainment market to go after beyond that. So as we reaccelerate revenue, we see a lot of opportunity to grow into that viewing and engagement and business opportunity ahead. So we expect to be there and we just have to build into it. Absolutely.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Do you have any thoughts on revisiting your film strategy? You know, in terms of like theatrical output as well as distribution, you've had so much success at the Academy Awards. So does that change anything for you? And you also recently had a restructuring in this division. Is there anything to read from that?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO No, Jessica, you know, the film division is doing great. They really are building some great films. As you point out, the success at the Oscars was great. But the thing even better than that was the movies that won so big were also very, very popular with fans. So this is award-winning, critical acclaim, and enormously popular with fans. Even, like I said, with All Quiet on the Western Front was that. Pinocchio certainly was that. And we're really proud of the films that were in the mix because they were loved by fans. So we're really happy with the investment in film. Of course, we're trying to improve it like we do with all of our films. But our release strategy, remember, there's a lot of ways to create and collect demand for a film. Driving folks to a theater is just not our business. We create that demand and we collect that demand on our subscription service with our members. And I think having big, new, desirable content, including feature films in the first window, drives value for our members and drives value to the business. So no major changes in play except for trying to continue to improve the films for our members and make a big splash with films that are loved and watched.

Greg Peters Co-CEO And it's really leaning into, we believe, an advantage we have of delivering that value to our members. But because of our reach and our scale to have over 230 million paying members at our average revenue per member, it affords the opportunity to invest in these big movies, bring them to our members. It's just one other piece or area, variety of content and must-watch content and entertainment for our members. So it's really kind of leaning into that advantage.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO And I think it's tempting to make the comparison between the services, but the other services don't have that scale, as you pointed out, Spencer. They don't have the revenue base or the viewer base to support with a single window the way we can support even big budget films with a single window on Netflix.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer How is your live strategy evolving? And Chris Kroc was a huge hit, but Lovers Blinds had some technical issues. Is live a big advertising driver? Do you need to invest more to beef up your technical capabilities?

Spence Newman CFO Greg, you want to grab that? Yeah, I'll kick it off. I'd start by saying we're really sorry to have disappointed so many people. We didn't meet the standard that we expect of ourselves to serve our members. And just to be clear from a technical perspective, we've got the infrastructure. We had just a bug that we introduced. Um, actually, when we, um, implemented some changes to try and improve live streaming performance after the last live broadcast Chris rock in March. Um, and we just didn't see this bug and internal testing because it only became apparent once we put sort of multiple systems interacting with each other under the load of millions of people trying to watch. Um, love is blind. So, uh, we hate it when these things happen, uh, but we'll learn from it and we'll get better. And, you know, we, we, we do have the fundamental infrastructure that we need. And I would say the good news is that, you know, ultimately, you know, 6.5 million viewers watched and enjoyed the show. Then I'll turn it over to Ted to talk about more of the strategy side.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Yeah, look, we've said we want to use live when it makes sense creatively, when it helps the content itself. So a reunion show that's going to generate news and buzz, it really does play better live when people can enjoy it together. Certainly the Chris Rock stand-up show played out so well because there's so much anticipation for what he's going to say in that set. So when we have the opportunities to do projects like that, we like the fact that we have the option to do it. As Greg said, we're super... disappointed to not be able to come across with the live product for everyone who wanted it on Love is Blind Reunion. But we're super thrilled that people love the show. And it does point to the kind of love for that brand and for the growing love for those unscripted brands on Netflix. And some of them will be live. And I do think sometimes those results-oriented shows do play out a little bit better on live, and they do generate a lot of conversation. But keep in mind, like on Chris Rock, about 90% of the viewing happened after. But it doesn't change the fact that it was a big event when it happened live.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Is it a big driver of advertising?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO We're not currently have advertising in the live broadcast.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer I have one more question on password sharing. Just go back to that for a second. But of the 30 million UCAN and 100 million plus global borrowers, that sounds like from your release, that's actually the number of households. What is the number of potential subs or add-ons? I mean, what is the potential conversion from these 100 million plus households?

Spence Newman CFO Well, to some degree, I mean, the borrowers, as borrowers said, represent, you know, well-qualified people in the sense that they have all the technical needs, you know, to get to Netflix, you know, the smart TV, the broadband access. They know how the system works. They've clearly enjoyed content, you know, on the service before. So, you know, having said that, you know, we see a sort of, you know, a range of engagement amongst those borrowers. So, some folks are, you know, watching as much, you know, of our shows as, you know, as a normal paying account and those folks are very strong likelihood to convert i would say and then you know we see that tailored off taper off rather um you know through that range of folks and you know if you're watching much less it's much less likely that you'll ultimately convert but Even in that case, I'd say, you know, this represents a really important structural shift where we'll develop that 1 to 1 relationship without pricing distortion without membership distortion with a whole new range of members. So we'll see a membership growth through that approach. We'll see revenue growth through it as well. But we'll also see a situation where. in high viewer penetration markets like the United States, you mentioned the stats there. Some of those folks won't convert, but they'll represent essentially a pool of people that we can then go after with improving our offering, more amazing movies. Ted talked about that, more amazing series, more amazing games in the fullness of time that'll get those folks ultimately to convert over members as well.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Then just also going back to like advertising, what are the advertising features that you are most excited about?

Spence Newman CFO Well, again, we're sort of in this mode where there's what I'm super excited about, and then there's the work that we really need to do for the business, which I'm also excited with it because it's just about how we get to be bigger. So there's sort of the brass tacks pieces, which are a lot about measurement, verification, targeting, expanding the ways for advertisers to buy. So I'm excited from a sort of immediacy of business returns for those pieces. But then when you think about like from a technology and product experience perspective, what am I excited about there? That's again where I think we have an opportunity to bring the specific characteristics of a premium, fully addressable, fully targetable, fully deterministic ad streaming system to this world. And so that means that we can do a whole range of things in terms of how we flight creatives from brands associated with certain shows. It thinks about how we tailor the user experience to be specific to what the user needs in a moment, rather than having a one size fits all set of rules in terms of how we flight ads. So there's just a whole amazing line of innovation that we can go after. And we'll be going after it for frankly, for years. And we don't even know what all those things are because mostly we'll be working with advertisers and members to try things and then let them tell us what's working, what's not.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer What do you consider the walk phase?

Spence Newman CFO Well, I think we're sort of getting into the walk phase and that it's probably a combination of things. One is, you know, it's scale, obviously scale is relevant in the business. So we have, you know, we're getting to a certain size of scale that shifts how advertisers think about us. Part of it is the technical features that advertisers, that face advertisers. So that's, you know, very much along the lines of this measurement, verification, targeting, the programmatic buying capability, that's a component of it.

Greg Peters Co-CEO um so those those i think really constitutes i can characterize that we're really you know we're we're basically getting into that middle phase of growth and we've got a lot of work frankly to do in that before we get to the run phase yeah we talked about it's a multi-year build and and a gradual build and crawl walk run and you know we're we're only a couple quarters into this so i don't know greg if you would agree but i i would hope we're in the walk phase by the end of the year and into next year but i think this is a year of getting from crawl to walk Yeah, that sounds right.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer I just wanted to clarify something, Spence. I think you said this is a 50% margin. I mean, typically advertising can be as high as 80 or 85% margins. Do you expect to build up to that or do you think it's really just a 50% plus business?

Greg Peters Co-CEO Well, I put plus in there, so I said at least 50%, and it was really just to highlight the fact that we're still in startup mode of this business, and so leaning a little conservative. But yes, our expectations over time is that it'd be meaningfully over 50%, but I don't want to give a specific number yet.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Okay. Moving on to gaming, can you give us some data points on engagement and what you're seeing on retention?

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, I'm not going to give you those specific points, but let me just to review sort of where we're at more broadly. You know, we've got 55 games out to date. We've got 40 more in the queue for this year. There's very exciting games. If you want to try a few out, I'd recommend Terra Nil. That's a reverse city builder, sort of twist on that genre. You've got Mighty Quest launching today. um our first new game from an internal studio which is oxen free 2 is coming later this year so you can sort of see it build into a combination of licensing and now layering in um you know internally developed games into that and you know and it's really you know it's following our trajectory that we've seen before i would say um on these other new content categories that we've added if you think about you know film and you you know you heard folks here talk about sort of that film progress or non-fiction or international where we sort of build into this over a multi-year period. And to reinforce, you mentioned those metrics. I mean, the fundamental goal here obviously is to give our members a new entertainment modality and more ways to enjoy incredible universes and deepen their fandom. And we do that with an effort to drive the primary metrics we have on the consumer facing side, which is engagement with the service, which leads to retention. and incredible stories that people are talking about games that are must-play games that create buzz off the service and motivate people to sign up.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Are there plans to directly monetize games, for example, advertising or licensing IP to game developers?

Spence Newman CFO not currently uh so we think that very consistent we've done in other parts of the business the best thing for us to do is really focus on um you know the core initiative which for us right now is um how do we bring games uh you know and games based on our ip to our members to fans of that ip directly And also, we believe that, you know, we want to have a differentiated gaming experience. And part of that is giving game creators the ability to think about, you know, building games surely from the perspective of player enjoyment and not having to worry about other forms of monetization, whether it be ads or in-game payments.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer So, maybe turning to India, which is one of the biggest global markets and one of the fastest growing markets really in the world right now. Spence, you mentioned the pricing change in 21. And Ted, you recently said at a panel earlier in the year, I think you were in India, that is your fastest growing market. And you've given the statistics engagement of 30%, revenue of 24%. But I think, Ted, you said that you're increasing your local originals from 28 last year. Can you just talk a little bit about this market? What are your long-term plans? Is it actually profitable or is this something where we can see a real change in contribution?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Look, I think what we talked about earlier, when we get the pricing a little better, more suited to the market, you can see that we can grow revenue, and therefore, and we grow engagement. We have to get the content that people just really flip out for. We've seen a steady improvement in that quarter over quarter, both in our films and our series. Rana Naadu now is this great show that we just, you know, that people are loving all over the country, and it causes a great deal of excitement for the service. Now, again, we have to get the pricing and the payment methods right. India's a big prize because it's an enormous population of entertainment-loving people, and you just have got to have the product that they love, and a product that you can do business with them together. So we're doing the creative part, and we're getting the pricing better, and there's always lots of promise to continue to grow in India. It is a very specific market in terms of they like local content, but also you're seeing their local content is traveling more than ever. This was an incredible year. I think is what you may be referring to, Jessica, that I was talking about movies like RRR. which did business all over the world. And Gangubai was this really fantastic film that was in the hunt for best foreign language feature. So you look at all these things and say that as the content opportunity continues to scale and our ability to access the market and thrill those audiences continues to grow, we could do quite well in India. We're a long ways from that. We're still investing against it. And I think that we'll ultimately do great in India.

Spencer Wong VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development Jessica, we have time for two last questions, please.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer Okay, so moving on to like ancillary revenue and products, can you give us an outlook or an update on, you know, just when you're seeing what your expectations are for consumer products? I mean, you announced the Lacoste collaboration for clothing on your eight most iconic shows, but you also have other collaborations. So, you know, I know it just seems like an area that now that you're building up your own content seems to provide a huge incremental opportunity.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Yeah, we continue to grow it. The primary driver for our consumer products business is to build and deepen fandom. It does drive some revenue. But in general, what we're really looking for is those opportunities to help fans connect with their favorite shows, their favorite films, their favorite talent by wearing the shirt or carrying the notebook uh and other other ways that people really like to express their fandom and also through these very successful live experiences uh the bridgerton experience or the stranger things uh experiences that we that travel around the world we're super excited about all of them and you see us stepping into even a newer one with the stranger things uh stage show and there's all kinds of amazing stuff coming in that world but keep in mind that it's mostly to build fandom uh in uh in a way that can drive revenue but mostly

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer and strengthens the core of the business right um i guess one last one so it just a follow-up on password sharing um in the markets where you've rolled out password sharing have you seen any movement between the tiers like for example as a household that has a premium subscription are they going to two standard or you know anything like that

Spence Newman CFO You know, we see some of those effects and right and we know that in especially price sensitive markets. Right. So this is also a situation which is very different market by market. But in some price sensitive markets, you know, consumers essentially got to a practical or informal pricing structure by subscribing to premium and then sharing this out. And then oftentimes, you know, actually having people pay. uh for a fraction of that um you know uh from as they're sharing it so um you know associated with that you know we see some of that being shifted off of those plans and having those people sign up for individual plans you know as we rationalize that structure um implement um the changes that prevent password sharing and also have them be able to use things like extra member Or in countries where it's relevant, the ads plan as a new entry level price. I think you're going to see some of that sorting. And again, we think this really, you know, it's better for the business. Ultimately, it sets us up structurally to have more members to have a 1 to 1 relationship with those members. to have all the systems that we have work more correctly to have more you know transparent uh sort of pricing connections um with those different members on the different plans uh so we're excited about you know getting through that point but again i would characterize this as a very country specific kind of approach where some countries respond that way in other countries um you know it really wasn't about that it was much more about casual sharing

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO And just to add really quick, the way that we win over those sharers and the way that we grow the ad plan is to have the content that people cannot live without. And let me just tell you real quick before we get to the close here, how we're doing on that front, because this quarter alone, this past Q1, Night Agent became our sixth biggest original season of television in our history. Incredible success. We saw returning seasons of You for season four, a third season of Outer Banks, a second season of Ginny and Georgia. All shows that have grown from their original first seasons. Also shows that have created incredible new stars like Chase Stokes and Antonia Gentry and Madeline Klein and Penn Bradley, who now have huge fan bases around the world. We saw The Glory, which is from Korea, and our fourth biggest non-English launch ever. We had incredible big films with big stars like You People, Your Place or Mine, Murder Mystery 2. Did really well in the multi-cam comedy space with The 90 Show and Unscripted with Full Swing. So this past quarter, we were super thrilled with the results of the content. And we have to keep that up in order to win over those sharing accounts and also to grow that ad-supported tier.

Jessica Reif-Ehrlich Interviewer You missed beef. You didn't say that.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO That was incredible. Oh, I missed a bunch. You know, Jessica, the reason why when we talk about our content, it sometimes sounds like a laundry list is it's a long list that really illustrates how hard this is to do, which is to hit on the quality and the breadth of the entertainment that people really want. And everyone has such remarkably varied taste that you have to have very different things for different fans. And that's what we're good at doing at scale.

Spence Newman CFO And plus one to beef as being an amazing guy.

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Well, that's true. By the way, that's that's new this quarter and it has kicked off and it's having it's off to a tremendous start. And again, another example of critical acclaim, likely to do well award season, we hope, but loved by fans.

Spencer Wong VP of Finance, IR, and Corporate Development Great. And with that, Ted, did you want to take us home?

Ted Sarandos Co-CEO Yeah, I just want to tell you real quick, we're really pleased with the quarter. 2023 is off to a good start. Netflix is the leading streaming service in terms of engagement, revenue, and profits, and streaming is the future of entertainment at home. So on engagement, just yesterday, Nielsen released data that in Q1 of 23, Netflix was the most watched of any broadcaster or streamer in the US by a pretty nice margin. uh we have and we have plenty of room to grow even with that tremendous amount of watching we're about 10 of total tv time in our most established markets like the us and the uk on revenue and profit we're growing not as fast as we believe we can not as fast as we go on to but we are growing and we are profitable and we have a clear path to re-accelerate growth in both revenue and profit and we're executing on it you'll see a broader rollout of paid sharing in q2 and we're going to continue to grow that ad business And we also are aiming to continue to grow free cash flow. As we said this year, we're going to generate about 3.5 billion in free cash and on increased margins. So remember that this account sharing initiative helps us have a larger base of potential paying members that we can continue to serve and grow Netflix long term. And that's why we've been so focused on execution. So the variety and quality of our much-watched movies, our much-watched TV shows, our must-play games, we're going to keep working to improve discovery, to have buzzier and more creative marketing. Because when we deliver for our members, we deliver as a business. And we keep doing that by doing it just a bit better.
