Company: Netflix
Symbol: NFLX
Exchange: NASDAQ
Year: 2019
Quarter: Q3
Source: https://earningscall.biz/e/nasdaq/s/nflx/y/2019/q/q3
Extracted At (UTC): 2026-02-17T10:18:08.432346+00:00

---
Spencer Wong VP of IR and Corporate Development Good afternoon and welcome to the Netflix Q3 2019 earnings interview. I'm Spencer Wong, VP of IR and Corporate Development. Joining me today are CEO Reed Hastings, CFO Spence Newman, Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos, and Chief Product Officer Greg Peters. Our interviewer this quarter is Mike Morris from Guggenheim. As a reminder, we'll be making forward-looking statements and actual results may vary. With that, let me turn it over to Mike for his first question.

Mike Morris Interviewer Thank you, Spencer. Good afternoon. Let's start by talking about both member trends and the outlook that you just provided for members in the fourth quarter. Starting with the third quarter, can you speak a bit about some of the key drivers that your results came in relatively in line with your guidance? Talk about the gross ad dynamic and the churn dynamic there relative to what you were expecting coming into the quarter, please.

Reed Hastings CEO Relatively in line. It was the most accurate member forecast we've had in years. Spencer, over to you.

Spence Newman CFO Spencer or Spence? I'll take it. We've got a lot of Spencers on the call. You know, I first say, Michael, you know, it was a really strong quarter. I mean, not just around subscribers, but around overall business performance. It was record revenues for Q3, record operating profit and nearly a billion dollars of operating profit, and, you know, record paid net ads for the quarter. We delivered on the subscriber front, slightly ahead of where we expected outside of the U.S. In the U.S., we were a little bit short. To your question, you know, we're talking very, very small numbers here. But we did see some elevated churn in the quarter that, you know, we had seen some elevated churn following our price increases in the U.S. And that ticked up and sustained through the quarter longer than it had in the past. But these are really small changes. We're talking about like a tenth of a percentage point in churn. And that's why, you know, at the same time, these price increases are hugely important. revenue positive for us, as you saw in the quarter, and so we take the bulk of that revenue and reinvest it back into the service, into great content, into great product experience for our members to continue to deliver on that value proposition and continue to grow our business.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay, I want to come back to the topic of churn, but before we do, I just want to ask about the fourth quarter outlook. On the last call, we spoke about potentially seeing a record year of net subscriber, net member additions in 2019. The guide does not imply that at this point. So can you talk a bit about perhaps what changed? And I think the big question in investors' minds is, will 2018 represent a peak year for member ads, or can you get back to growing on top of that level again? Sure, I'll take that one again, too.

Spence Newman CFO So, you know, in terms of our guide for the year, yes, it is down a bit from our previous forecasts. And really what we're just trying to do there is be prudent about that there's a number of moving parts in Q4 and variables that are just difficult to forecast. And whether it's, you know, first just the ability to be precise about a forecast around our content slate that has so much new IP in Q4 and big film, a big film IP that we've never had a quarter with so much big film, you know, so many big films launching in a quarter. Combine that with some of that elevated churn that we saw in Q3 and you know, the potential for that to continue into Q4. And then lastly, there is, you know, obviously a few new competitors launching in the near term, and we try to factor that in as well. Inevitably, there's probably going to be some curiosity and some trial of those competitive service offerings. So when we put all that together, again, you know, we adjusted our forecast slightly. It's still nearly 27 million paid net ads for the year, a tremendously strong year. And, you know, furthermore, it is, you know, our long-term outlook is unchanged in terms of the long-term opportunity for the business. We're just trying to be prudent about our Q4 forecast. And Mike?

Reed Hastings CEO The prior year in the U.S., we did 5 million net ads. And this year, if we're on forecast, it'll be about 2.6. So the gap's almost entirely in the U.S., And that's really on the back of the price increase. There's a little more sensitivity. We're starting to see the little touch of that. And what we have to do is just really focus on the service quality, make us must have. I mean, we're incredibly low price compared to cable. We're winning more and more viewing. So we think we have a lot of room there. But this year, that's what's hit us. And we'll just. stay focused on just providing amazing value to our members in the U.S. And I think that gives us a real shot at that continuing to grow long-term net ads on an annual basis. But we're going to be a little cautious on that guidance and feel our way through here.

Mike Morris Interviewer And on that elevated churn, just to kind of wrap on this, what type of subscribers are you seeing growing? churn more often? Does it tend to be really that hit driven nature around particular programming? Does it happen to be Sort of the last subscriber in is less sticky. What are you seeing there?

Reed Hastings CEO Mike, at one-tenth of a percent, it's one in a thousand people. So you really can't tell on the margin. Think of it much more big picture, which is, you know, it's always a question of how much value do we have? How do the consumers feel it? In moving up ASP in the U.S. from about $12 to about $13, we see a little bit of it. And then what we have to do is just give it a pause and really focus on the value. You know, if you think about it, we haven't had many big movies in the past, and movies are very valuable. People are used to paying for a lot of that. And the slate that Ted and his team have this quarter and for next year is way better than any movie slate we've ever had. So, you know, there's some great room for optimism there, too. So we just have to focus on the members, and I think it will shake out very well.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay, thank you. So let's talk about competition. Spence brought the topic up, so I'm not introducing it. I know it's been a hot topic, but Reid, you spoke in the UK a couple of weeks ago. You made a comment saying it would be a whole new world starting in November. I think a lot of people, a lot of investors just read the quote. They didn't necessarily see the interview for context. And so I'd love it if you could provide some context, given that that is a bit different from your comments from a couple of quarters ago where you felt that perhaps these new services wouldn't necessarily be material to the outlook?

Reed Hastings CEO You know, from when we began in streaming Hulu and YouTube and Amazon Prime back in 2007, 2008, we're all in the market. All four of us have been competing heavily, including with linear TV, for the last 12 years. So fundamentally, there's not a big change here. It is interesting that we see both Apple and Disney launching basically in the same week after 12 years of not being in the market. And I was being a little playful with Whole New World in the sense of the drama of it coming. But, you know, fundamentally, it's more of the same. And Disney's going to be a great competitor. Apple's just beginning, but, you know, they'll probably have some great shows, too. But again, all of us are competing with linear TVs. And we're all relatively small to linear TV. So just like in the letter we put about the multiple cable networks over the last 30 years, not really competing with each other fundamentally, but competing with broadcast. I think it's the same kind of dynamic here.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer I think I got the subtlety of the whole world Aladdin reference. Everyone else took it pretty literal.

Reed Hastings CEO And Ted, why don't you talk a little about the movie slate and how it's different. If there's a whole new world, it's really about our movie slate more than anything else.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer I think we've got just in the fourth quarter alone, you're talking about films that range from massive scale action film from Michael Bay, Win Six Underground, to Oscar hopefuls like the Irish mid-marriage story and Two Popes, Eddie Murphy's return in Dolomite. So these are big, theatrically ambitious type films that you'll be able to watch on Netflix, included in your subscription. It really is a fundamental change in the economics of how people enjoy films. So we're really excited about it. And it's our first time we've seen the scale and this volume of films in one quarter. So we're really excited about it.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay. Before we dig into some content questions a bit more, I do want to talk about pricing a little bit and the pricing power in the US market. So perhaps for Greg or for Spence, two things. Number one, do you think that the lower price point for some of these new services will negatively impact your ability to raise your price in the future? And maybe more broadly, can you talk about equilibrium price for the service? We would love for you to give us a price point. I know that's unlikely. But as you just think about... you could be a great value at a number of different price points, but how do you think about where that sort of shakes out?

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer I think the pricing of our competitors we don't feel is a real significant factor in determining what we can charge for our service. Again, the services and the content are highly differentiated, so one is you know, not something you're going to choose to do just for us. But I would say, you know, our job and what we think about pricing from a long-term perspective is continue to take, you know, the revenue that we have that our subscribers give us every month judiciously and, you know, smartly invested into you know, an increasing variety and diversity of content where we really want to be best in class across, you know, every single genre. And if we do that and we're, you know, we're successful in making those investments smartly, we'll be able to continue to deliver more value to our members. And that really, you know, will enable us to, from time to time, you know, ask for more revenue so that we can continue that virtuous cycle going.

Mike Morris Interviewer And so I don't know if you can speak any more about it, but is there a place where whether it's relative to a pay TV subscription in a certain market or relative to other streaming services that you think set some sort of bound around where you where pricing could ultimately go to.

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer I think you can look at a couple of external ones, you know, in terms of pay TV packages that might be relevant. We don't really look at it that way. We look at it more sort of incrementally and let our subscribers sort of tell us as we add more value along where that, you know, that right price should be. And so we're we're really more focused on listening to subscribers and sort of walking that path with them.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay, and one other question on pricing for you, Greg. A couple of different dynamics, especially outside the U.S., where you have different price points. You tested a mobile-only plan, a lower-priced plan in India. Could you talk a little bit about perhaps the variety of tests and pricing plans that you have in the marketplace right now and any differentiation you can give us between more mature markets with some stable pricing, tests, anything like that so we can get a view going forward?

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer Sure. Just to talk a little bit about where we are in India. I mean, again, we think about revenue as the guiding principle for as we do these different tests and trying to figure out, you know, what is the right set of plans that have the right benefits, the right features that are delivered at the right price for the subscribers in any given market. And I think what we're exploring is as we are operating in markets that have very, very different conditions, you know, very different levels of affluence and other forms of entertainment competition, et cetera. What is the right structure for us? And so we've been very, very happy with the mobile plan. It's actually performing better than we tested. We'll look at testing that in other markets, too, because we think there are other markets which have similar conditions that make it likely that that's going to be successful for us as their But I also think, you know, we're going to look at, you know, other, you know, other plan structures, other future value benefits where we might see, you know, different market conditions. They'll work there. And I won't get into sort of leaning into those. We'll see them as we roll out and we'll respond to them based on what our consumers in those markets, our members to be in those markets are telling us is working or not.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay. I want to come back to competition, but this time talk about competition for content. Ted, you teed up a bit of some of the things you're enthusiastic about going forward. Reid, you did make the comment again in the UK that someday the crown would look like a bargain, perhaps another soundbite that was picked up, but perhaps you could provide some context around that. Maybe generally, how do you think about the investment that you want to make in programming from a very high level? Is it an overall budget? Is it a cost per subscriber at a certain level? How do you think about

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer I would say the exciting thing about this moment in entertainment history is that the scope and scale and ambition of television is beginning to rival that of feature film, which is an incredible win for consumers. And so when Reid was talking about The Crown, he was talking about relative to the joy and the hours of watching, The Crown will look like a bargain, and that these things on big scope and scale. And we're pretty uniquely positioned with a $15 billion content budget to be able to deliver on that scope and scale at the same time for film and television. So that incredible, that slate that I just rattled off to you, it's happening at the same time that we have returning seasons of End of the F-ing World, The Crown, Lost in Space, You, all incredibly popular shows. Casa de las Flores from Mexico, Baby from Italy, all back for returning seasons. Breaking brand new series like The Witcher, Daybreak, all at the same time being able to deliver on what we think is an incredible value proposition to consumers. So we were asking earlier about price. It's really price relative to value. And if you're spending more and more time watching your TV shows and films on Netflix, you're realizing an incredible value. And I think that's really how the consumer experiences it.

Reed Hastings CEO Ted, as much as you can ballpark it, a show five years ago, producing that same show today, sort of 50% more expensive, $30,000.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer It's a really hard one because the range is huge and sometimes the big breakthrough is not the one that turned out to be that, you know, that came into it that competitively. But on a very competitive show, there's probably been 30% price escalation from this time last year.

Reed Hastings CEO In one year?

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer In one year.

Reed Hastings CEO That's a lot. But, you know, definitely content pricing is rising. But when we are fortunate to have the largest membership, one of the biggest revenues and the biggest content budgets, And so that's something that we're able to still be very competitive for the best shows.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer And actually point out, it's an elite few shows that are that competitive that would see that kind of escalation. Just in any environment where you've injected a few new buyers, you're going to catch that dynamic on a highly competitive show.

Spence Newman CFO The only thing I'd add also, just to reinforce, we look at a lot of things. We don't chase everything. And we also lose on opportunities, right? So So we're exercising discipline all along the way with every single title. We're assessing every title individually. And one, as Ted said, with the size of content budget, we'll take big swings and we can make some mistakes because we don't have any single title content concentration. But we are, because of that discipline, we're continuing to march towards increasing profit margins, improving our cash flow trajectory over time. This is with discipline and business discipline while we are going after these big swings.

Spencer Wong VP of IR and Corporate Development And Mike, at the risk of hitting it too hard, the diversification point, just sort of mathematically, investors can do the math on what $100 million sort of project relative to a $15 billion cash content budget or $10 billion P&L budget means. It's incredibly diverse, right? So we don't have any sort of concentration risk. Sorry to point that out.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Considering that math, Spencer, but the idea that the rumored $100 million that House of Cards investment going into, the way that that seemed earth-shattering less than seven years ago, today it represents about 1% of our content budget.

Mike Morris Interviewer And today that would be a bargain. So if I look at this dynamic then, continuing to increase the investment in content at the same time growing your subscribers, where are we in terms of achieving scale on that investment? If we look at that content spend per subscriber, do you expect the competition to continue to drive that up? Or are we getting to a point of equilibrium where you're starting to see the benefit of that global penetration that you have?

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer I wouldn't try to take a stab at predicting whether we're at equilibrium when there's so much fluidity in the market today. But I think what you're seeing now, there's an absolute cap, of course, of what anyone can pay for any given project. And it'll get super competitive for a lot of them. So I'd say that we're investing forward and trying to win those moments of joy for our members, and that's what's driving us.

Reed Hastings CEO And, Mike, there's about 2 billion active users of Facebook, 2 billion active users of YouTube. We're obviously a fraction of that, and those numbers are continuing to grow. There's 6 billion active mobile phones in the world, and that's got to equilibrium. So equilibrium is so far away from where we are today, it's not something that we think a lot about. We think about how do we grow.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Yeah, definitely in terms of member growth. I thought you were talking about content spending.

Mike Morris Interviewer Sure. So let's talk about creating franchises. I have a question about that. I think there's a lot of enthusiasm, as you know, for the Disney Plus product coming out, and I think that it rides a little bit on the success of the streaming marketplace. but also this concept that they have this tremendous content library and IP library that they've built over many years. So Reed and Ted, as you think about that, I know you've made an investment in children's content over the course of the last quarter. Talk a little bit about franchises, the importance of franchises, and whether building franchises is something that is your ambition.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer I think established IP has a leg up with consumers. They know what they're getting into. There's a pre-built-in excitement. It makes the marketing a little easier. But in general, don't forget the power of brand creation. What is the value of a franchise? It's really the value of brand creation and can you scale off of it. In this past quarter, we made a movie called Tall Girl. It was a hugely unknown cast who in seven days grew their social media following into the millions. on Netflix and had over 40 million people watch it. That's the ability to create a brand almost out of thin air, which I think is every bit as valuable as drafting off of a bunch of other franchises, waiting for them to burn out. That being said, we're very excited about the opportunity to do it ourselves. We see the value of franchises like Stranger Things and Black Mirror. And so we're continuing to work to do that as well. But I think about it as not like franchises are better than non-franchises. Great stories are what matter. And the way that they reach consumers really makes a difference.

Mike Morris Interviewer We had a couple of original programs, original pieces of content of markets outside the U.S., global pieces, but focused in markets. Sacred Games in India, Casa de Papel in Spain, I'm thinking about in particular, which saw Google search activity, let's say at multiples or at least doubling what their prior levels were. So I'm curious your thought about how that piece of content does drive that enthusiasm in a local market. I think, you know, what that ties to really is, I think, the way we try to think about what the growth opportunity is. So I'd love to hear why you think you get that big step up and maybe in terms of Ted and Greg together, how you work together to try to make that happen.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Sure. You saw in the letter our investment in local language original series and film is continuing to grow. We'll add more than 100 seasons of new local language original shows, and they make a huge impact in the market. Casa de las Flores, which will be back for a second season in Mexico, has been a tremendous success. What's been great too is a lot of these titles that are hugely impactful in the country where they're produced also tend to travel throughout the region and sometimes around the world. So the Casa de Papel, the success of that show, was basically in almost every non-English speaking territory. It was a phenomenal success. We're going to see that coming up with a new show called The Wave from Germany, where these stories can be very pan-regional, but the way that they travel and the way that they make a big splash around the world is to be super authentically local and really satisfying for the viewers, starting in the home country and then expanding around the world. We're in our fourth year of producing local language originals at scale, and we're We're excited to continue to expand it. The nice part is I think people will enjoy a global film or a global series every so often, love to see themselves on screen, and that we're able to deliver on both of those propositions for our members around the world.

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer And I just add that I think it's super fun and exciting to be able to take one of these, you know, really authentic local stories and connect it effectively with a broad regional or global audience. In many cases, we feel like would have never actually watched a show in that language or from that country before. And, you know, the key to doing that, first of all, is obviously being available in all those countries in a, you know, in a easy to access way. But then it's connecting that show, you know, having it be localized in language with subtitles or dubbing, whatever is appropriate for that market. And then also, you know, explaining to users and members, you know, why they're going to want to, you know, watch this amazing, you know, heist series from Spain and why that's going to be a totally compelling watch for them based on, you know, the other kind of content that they're enjoying.

Mike Morris Interviewer I think it's important to understand how broad your production is outside the U.S. So can you share any statistics on how many countries you're actually producing first-party production of content and what that sort of investment looks like in terms of building them out there? And in addition, you did strike a partnership with Mediaset during the quarter. One specific partnership you could perhaps detail how that can benefit you.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Well, we've entered into most of those markets in joint venture or in co-production arrangements at the beginning and then take over many productions in those countries as we get scale in those countries. And we also continue to have great co-production relationships with folks like Mediaset, even though our own studio is producing local Italian content as well. So I'd say we've released original local language content in 17 countries to date. We're going to grow it to 30. And that's just going to keep growing around the world.

Mike Morris Interviewer One other content question. You did make a high-profile commitment to rights for Seinfeld, which is a little bit, I don't want to say counter, but certainly different from the focus of allocating resources incrementally to originals. Can you talk about how big of a commitment is that for you, maybe at least on a relative basis, and why is that the right decision?

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Well, we've seen in the past we've had a lot of questions about the value of volumes of catalog programming meaning just having hours and hours of content that people don't watch uh but we have seen as a few titles in the history of television seinfeld being one of them uh that continue to be incredibly relevant 30 years after it came out on television and get watched every night it's kind of a comfort view uh comedy that travels around the world uh and seinfeld is one of these very elite shows that that came available in that time frame so um We have Friends until the end of the year, then we'll have Office for another year after that, and then Seinfeld or Roll Out to the World in 2021 on Netflix. And we're incredibly enthusiastic about those shows, but they're very, very unique in the vast catalog of television ever created that people are still watching 30 years after it was produced.

Mike Morris Interviewer I want to ask you some questions about windowing and sort of creating community among your viewers. And one of the questions that we get is really about dropping an entire season at once versus having it spread out over a week at a time. You've addressed this question before, but I'd like to hear your current thoughts. And I think the question is really beyond just why not do it every week, but why do it, let's say, an entire season at once? Maybe you could split a season into pieces or the timing of a series. For example, we were asked why Stranger Things couldn't have been before the end of the second quarter instead of just after the start of the third quarter.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer So I'll give you a quick just personal anecdote. I'm a big fan of Succession on HBO, and I watch it every Sunday night when it comes on, just like everyone else. And if I like that show a little bit less, I would probably burn out on it because I get aggravated every week waiting for the next episode. That's how much I like it. So we are trying to finally fine tune the proposition to the customer of great storytelling, how and when they want to watch it. And what we have seen in comparison, because we have about 35 shows around the world that we release week over week because it's premiering in that territory on Netflix and we want to deliver on it as soon as it – as close to the broadcast window as we can. And what we've seen is in markets where we release it all at once versus one a week, that we actually get more viewing and cumulatively more social media buzz, more tweets, more activity on social media around these shows for the all-at-ones model. So people are coming to it at different times. They're loving it more. It's in a more concentrated experience for sure. All that being said, we are doing things like producing, like you saw with the ranch where we were producing 10 episode seasons with smaller gaps between seasons. So they're coming out six months apart rather than a year apart. You're seeing we're testing an interesting release pattern with Rhythm and Flow, a music competition show. And basically what we're trying to do is match not just the program exactly that you want to watch, but how do you want to watch it? And for a lot of people, it may not be all at once, but it's hardly ever one a week.

Mike Morris Interviewer Right. Do you see more opportunities for that, whether it's unscripted or the type of program? It's not live per se, but it does lend itself to a little more pent up excitement. Do you see more opportunities to put resources behind that or is it opportunistic?

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer It's opportunistic. We're trying a lot of different things. Basically, what we're trying to do is make your favorite show, whatever that is. And for some people, it's going to be a music competition show, and for other people, it'll be green eggs and ham. So we really are trying to make your favorite show, whatever it is, and be best in class at all of those things. And there might be something unique about the release rhythms of competition shows and more topical talk shows that lend themselves better to frequency of release.

Mike Morris Interviewer You spoke two quarters ago, we updated a little bit last quarter, the topic of providing some more data or information both for producers, talent, as well as for individuals. My first question is, can we have an update on where we are on that, what you have provided, and especially from the consumer perspective as well? I think the goal was to help create some more of that buzz, create more conversations. How is that playing out at the moment?

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Well, one of the things you saw, we've launched in the UK and we're looking to expand a presentation of the top 10 so that people can come to Netflix and see the top 10 most popular things in different categories. Once again, I think that one way that people choose content is by popularity. It's not the only way and it's not the only way we want people to. But if they want to use that as a tool to help guide their decision making, we want to help them do that. So publishing that top 10 that refreshes every 24 hours is one way that we're helping out on the consumer side. Our producers, we share viewing data with every week on the launch week and the end of the month. So we're incredibly transparent with our producers around the world, and we're going to be increasingly doing things like we did in our earnings letter and give you viewer stats on a lot of our projects as we go. Greg, did you add anything about the top 10?

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer No, I think you covered it well. And just to make it clear, I mean, that top 10, that's a list that's available in the product. So, you know, to Ted's point, those members who really, you know, think that popularity is an important signal for them on what to watch will have that available to them.

Mike Morris Interviewer Great. Greg, I'd like to ask you a couple questions on the technology of the product side. First, maybe an update on partnerships. We talked about it a bit on the last call. I'd love to expand. In the U.S., The pay TV partnerships seem to be a big part of the focus. Can you talk about whether that's become a bigger part of the subscriber acquisition product? Is it steady stake? Help us understand where we are in that process.

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer Yeah, it's important, I think, to ground it in the partner-based acquisition component when you think about all the devices that we operate on and just being able to find and sign up new devices, that's a healthy chunk of our acquisition. But then when you get to the bundles, which I think often people think about partners equals bundles, that's a relatively small, but it's a nice incremental acquisition channel for us. And so we'll seek to grow that. We think there's a bunch of opportunities, both in the United States with existing partners and expanding the number of bundles and sort of the bundle availability. We'll also seek to expand that globally because we think there's a tremendous number of opportunities globally to add those kind of partners and make it easier for members to sign up. We did a couple this quarter, whether it's Canal Plus and Sky Italia with sort of new partners for bundles. But we've also done things like take KDDI, a mobile operator in Japan, and be able just to expand our presence across their offering, which makes it, again, an easier place, more attractive for more members to sign up. So it's a, you know, it's still small, you know, a relatively small fraction of our acquisition, but it's a nice, good incremental way to access, you know, a member-based, member-to-be-based that's, you know, it's less technology forward, less early adopter, and we can just, you know, make it super simple for them to sign up.

Mike Morris Interviewer Okay, another topic that we haven't talked about in a little while, is that a password sharing or stealing or whatever you want to call it? As we get to a more mature growth trajectory in the U.S., Does that come back into being something important for you to address? And how do you address it without alienating a certain portion of your user base?

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer How do you strike a balance there? Yeah, I think we continue to monitor it. So we're looking at the situation and, you know, we'll see, you know, again, those consumer friendly ways to push on the edges of that. But I think, you know, we've got no big plans to announce at this point in time in terms of doing something differently there.

Mike Morris Interviewer OK, and suspense, I'd like to ask a couple of questions on the financial side. The first around margins and contribution margin. In the past, you've spoken to a 40% domestic contribution margin target. Is that something that you still view as achievable? And maybe within that context, when we talk about competition, do we need to spend more, say, on the marketing side than you previously anticipated as you achieve what you want to achieve on the subscriber side?

Spence Newman CFO Well, first on margins, I guess, you know, so the good news is we did deliver over 40% contribution margin in the U.S. this quarter. happens to be the last quarter that we're looking at the business in that way, as we talked about in terms of changing the way we'll be reporting going forward. I mean, we noted in the letter that we'll start reporting our revenues and our subscribers on a regional basis and then global operating margin. That's really because as we've moved to a world where we're both licensing and producing more and more original programming on a global basis, segment margin is not really the way we think about the business. Increasingly, we think about managing to a global margin. We are breaking out that regional reporting on the revenue and subscriber level because of that level, we are directly driving our business at a regional level. As we talked about this quarter, 90% of our growth is outside the U.S. And so we think about it more than just U.S. versus international. You know, frankly, we in terms of our business, continuing to grow our margins. Again, we look at it at that global basis. We're driving, you know, we think scale and efficiencies and margin growth across the board, our content investment, while it's growing, it's growing slower than our revenue growth and marketing. We will market as we think appropriate and needed to grow our business. We had a very large increase in our marketing spend last year. So this year you're seeing spend at similar levels to last year. And that's because we learned a lot. We learned a lot along the way. We'll continue to test and learn. So we find new and different ways to reach our members every day. And so we'll continue to turn the knobs there. But we're very conscious about continuing to drive up our operating margins on that global basis, the 300 basis point increase this year to 13%. And we talked about in the letter committing to 16% next year. So we'll continue to do that by driving efficiencies in the business while doing the requisite marketing to reach our members.

Mike Morris Interviewer And maybe we'll piggyback off some of those fundamental trends you just mentioned to talk about free cash flow as well. A little bit of a different dynamic with the investment on the cash side, but you talk about progress toward turning free cash flow positive. Can you give us insight on some of the levers there or how to think about, and you reference the coming year, maybe just highlight that for us and then really the progression off the 2020 levels, what your expectation is.

Spence Newman CFO Yeah, sure. Again, we're committed to starting in 2020, improve our negative free cash flow profile. We talked about this year that we're expecting roughly negative three and a half billion of negative free cash flow. Again, that is investment in future content to be delivered on our service. So we are profitable. We're increasingly profitable. So that's why we see in 2020, as we continue to grow our profit margins, continue to scale our business at what you've seen this year, which is nearly 30% revenue growth and then increasing margins, that ultimately translates into more cash flow that can be converted into content investment and improving that profile. And we've also been transitioning from licensed second-run content into original programming, so that created some of that working capital pressure. But now, You know, the bulk of our content investment is original programming, so we've made it a long way up that curve. So the combination of our scale and our business model transition is well along. And that's why you're going to start to see that free cash flow improvement next year. And then beyond that, we're not going to give specific projections. We'll continue to scale gradually towards self-funding while we continue to kind of, you know, go after our strategic priorities.

Spencer Wong VP of IR and Corporate Development Mike, we have time for one or two last questions, please.

Mike Morris Interviewer Sure. Well, I'll take an opportunity to finish with a question for each of you, so maybe get a little bit of a five-answer bonus here. But I'm curious what each of you, if you wouldn't mind sharing, are most looking forward to as we get through the next quarter and you come to your next earnings interview. What's the one thing that – that you're most excited about being able to talk about as we look at that. Maybe I'll start with you, Spencer, and for convenience, we'll work backward alphabetically by last name so you guys can figure that out. Spencer, go ahead.

Spencer Wong VP of IR and Corporate Development Great. I guess for me, maybe fewer questions from investors on competition, but I think that's pretty unlikely. So I'll say what I'm, I guess, really excited about in the coming quarter is actually Six Underground. A new original film from Ted's team. I'm a big action film junkie, so super excited about that.

Spence Newman CFO I guess I come next. So, you know, I'm super excited about The Irishman, actually. Can't wait to see that film. And also, you know, frankly, it will be nice to have some of these competitive launches in the rearview mirror so that we can continue to look forward and all the things that we're excited about in terms of this huge global opportunity. Great.

Mike Morris Interviewer I'll go to Ted next.

Ted Sarandos Chief Content Officer Look, what I'm most excited, we've got to be able to, we have to do exactly what we're doing right now, which is we have to continue to make your favorite show and we need to continue to deliver it to you seamlessly. And none of that changes in the, you know, in upcoming. And I think when I look at the quarter ahead, these guys already mentioned Irishman and, and, and sorry, Six Underground. But I also think, you know, there's some incredible things in between there with things like like Marriage Story, like the two popes from Fernando Morales and Laundromat from Steven Soderbergh. These are the most iconic directors of our time making their next film at Netflix. We have a building full of animators who have made the best animation for over the last decade, making their next projects at Netflix. And I'm really excited to be able to come in and update you on those on those two projects. over the next quarters.

Greg Peters Chief Product Officer And I'm pretty consistent with that. I think, you know, the opportunity to be able to expose our members to the kind of films that we are producing right now that are being, you know, released on Netflix, you know, in such a compelling way is going to be super exciting. And it's super fun to sort of look back on that and see how that goes.

Reed Hastings CEO I look forward to blowing away the numbers. Accuracy is good when we have only accuracy without accuracy. But it's super fun to blow away the numbers. So fingers crossed. We'll see every quarter. The forecast is a 50-50 guess, as you see, for this year. And we'll see when it comes.
